MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-08-05
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1347,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
August 5, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD IN THE MAYOR'S CONFERENCE ROOM, KALANA O MAUI
BUILDING, WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 5,
2022, BEGINNING AT 9:01 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Willthe Maui County Council regularCouncil meeting of
August 5, 2022, please come to order.
Aloha and good morning, everyone. The morning greeting is from Belgium, from
Europe, and issalut.
So, startingoffwith rollcall.Mr. Clerk.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with rollcall.
Members participatingfrom non-publiclocationsshould statewho, ifanyone, except
minors, ispresent withthem as partof rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinencl.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Salut,Chair. And aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina.For
the record,thismorning, we are broadcasting from our courtesy sitein East Maui at
the Hana Cultural Center and Museum at 4974 Uakea Road. And currently,I'm here
with my districtstaffNapua Lono. And there are no persons here to testifyat the
moment.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Excused. Mr. Clerk,are you ina tunnelor something?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair. Just the setup inthe Mayor's lounge requiresme to
be-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Oh, oh, the Mayor's lounge. Okay. Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Thanks. Proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair, Councilmembers, community
members. Salut to allof you. I am home alone in my, in my house on, in Lanai City.
The birds are chirping,and the dogs are snoring. And there are no testifiersat the
DistrictOffice.And I'm here to make good necessary troublejustlikemy coffee cup.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Salut and aloha kakahiaka kakou. I'm broadcasting liveand
directfrom my home in Napili,where 1 have one minor, who's name shall not be
disclosed,and a pocket pit.And to my knowledge, we have no testifiersatthe Lahaina
DistrictOffice. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Salut,everybody. I'minKula and looking fonward to a fast
meeting with 59, 59 items to go. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: And you're home alone? Are you home alone?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: My husband's downstairs, but I guess that'sconsidered
almost alone.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 3
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Aloha kakahiaka, Chair. And salutto allof my colleagues and
everyone out there inAkaku land. Iam home inmy \A/orkspace.And inthe next room
is my daughter and her caregiver. And I'm looking forward to a wonderfully brief
Council meeting. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hallelujah.Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha kakahiaka, my Maui Nui a kama. That sounds
good, Member Kama, Isecond that. 1am at a friend'sresidence inMakawao alone in
the room. Iforgotthat I couldn’tparticipatein the meeting from my officeon the 8th
floorbecause of the liveballots.So, I'm here rightnow. And I'm keeping my video off
so thatmy audio isstronger. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Vice-Chair.
Now, Members, Ibelieve that Members King and Molina willbe joiningus laterand so
they'reexcused fornow. But I'm prettysure they'regoing to be joiningus.
So, my name isAlice Lee, and 1 am the Chair, wishing you alla very good morning.
And I'm home alone transmittingfrom my home office.And salutto allof you and to
all,everyone who's joiningus today.
As you know, allof us have been notifiedthatwe need to conclude thismeeting before
4:30. So, Iwould say 4:25 willbe the deadline forus, so thatwe can close down what
we're doing at,inthe Mayor's Office,Mayor's Conference Room on the 9th floor.They
close at 4:30 sharp, so we need to respect that. So, I'm hoping that your questions
and comments will be concise.
In the future,Ijustwant to letyou know thatwe may be experimenting, ina sense, with
testimony for Council meetings. For Council meetings, not necessarilyCommittee
meetings, because the Council meetings have a lotof items. Like today, we have
59 items. So, what we are planning to do, not today, but the next,going forward,isto
callup testimony before each category of items. We have sixcategories,so,they have
six opportunitiesto speak. And we're going to eliminatethe one, the testimony inthe
beginning. So, we have checked with OIP and we're going to see ifthat might work
betterfor us. Then, then, we can probably confine our meetings to nine hours instead
of, you know, twelve, and, and try and work itthat way. I don't see where the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 4
Committees need to change necessarily,because you only have one to four items
generally. But today, we have 59 items, and we have, we have seven categories.
Any questions so far,Members? Ididn'twant to switchto the new system yet,because
1thinkpeople need to know inadvance. Maybe people were expecting to testifyat the
beginning of the meeting and Ididn'twant to inconvenience anyone.
Yes, Mr. Sinenci? You have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. And mahalo forlettingus know about our
hard stop today. Should we go over that,you'reconsideringrecessing to another date?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And probably Monday. But I,Idon'tsee thatwe have any, Ishouldn'tsay
this,but Idon'tthinkwe have any controversialitems coming up thatI'maware of. But
you know, this,thisgroup of characters,our Council,you know, you never can, you
know, you never can say no. We need to be open and flexible,you know, and justtake
things as they come. Alrightany more questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
SINENCI, GABRIEL
JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA,
NATALIE A. KAMA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANEPRESENT:
COUNCILMEMBERS MICHAEL J. MOLINA AND KELLY T.
KING.
EXCUSED:
(Councilmembers Molina and King were not present when the rollwas called;however,
they arrivedat 9:24 a.m. and 10:44 a.m., respectively.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, with your presence, there are seven Members present
two Members excused. A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record,Iam Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also presentfrom the Office
ofthe County Clerk are LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige and Lauren Saldana.
Joiningthe meeting from the Department of the CorporationCounsel are Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and FirstDeputy Corporation Counsel RichelleThomson.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
Augusts, 2022
Page 5
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Members, I did get a textthatMember Molina should be joiningus in
about 10 minutes or 15 minutes.And Member King may be in around 10 a.m., justfor
your information.
At this time. I would like to invite Councilmember Tamara Paltinto provide opening
remarks.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offeredby Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Well said. Thank you very much.
Now, Members, Iinviteyou to joinme inthe Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, everyone, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please
request that everyone keep theirmicrophones muted unless itis your time to speak.
Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on setting the Consent
Calendar. Members of the publicmay testifyinthe Mayor's Conference Room on the
9th floorofthe Kalana O Maui Building,at courtesytestimony sites,or remotely through
the information listedon the meeting agenda.
Individualsinthe Mayor's Conference Room may sign up totestifywiththe stafflocated
at the desk in the back of the room. Individuals at courtesy testimony sitesmay sign
up with staffat the site. Individualsparticipatingremotely may sign up inthe meeting
chat.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 6
Ifyou're connected to the meeting by phone, you willautomatically be added to the
testifierlist.Individualsconnected by phone are currentlyon mute and willbe unmuted
when itistheirtime to testify.
Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their video and
microphones offand should turnthem on only when itistheirtime to testify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforthree
minutes with up to one minute to conclude per item. When testifying,please stateyour
name and the name of any organizationyou represent,as well as the items on which
you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou're a paid lobbyist.
Individualsmay be disconnected from the meeting at any time forbreaking decorum.
At thistime,we willcallindividualsto testifyon the settingof the Consent Calendar.
And Chair, there are no individualssigned up to testifyon thisitem. Ifanyone does
want to testifyon the settingof the Consent Calendar, please identifyyourselfnow.
Last call.
Chair, there isno one to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Please proceed with the Consent Calendar.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, at thistime, the Council may set the Consent Calendar,
or may add or remove items at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: I'msorry,Ididn'tquitehear you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, apologies. Chair. At thistime, it'sthe, ifthe Council is.at
thistime,ifthere'sno objection,the Council could close testimony on the settingofthe
Consent Calendar and then proceed to set the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE:
Calendar?
Members, are there any objections to closing testimony on the Consent
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Okay, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 7
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, at this time, the Members can set the Consent Calendar.
They can add items or remove items.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Members, are you ready to set the Consent Calendar. Okay.
Ifnot,Mr. Clerk,can you go over the Consent Calendar?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currently,there are, there appear to be about
13 communications listed on the Consent Calendar. If the Members are okay with
leavingthose items on the Consent Calendar and do not wish to add any other items
or remove the.they can proceed with settingit.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SO MOVED, CHAIR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to set the
Consent Calendar.
Okay, allthose infavorofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, PALTIN,
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING AND MOLINA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: We have one audio "aye" from Member Keani Rawlins-Fernandez. Alright.So
the "ayes" have it.The Consent Calendar isset.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 8
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
remaining agenda items. At thistime,individualsmay testifyon allremaining agenda
items. Testimony willalso be allowed before each category of today's agenda. So,
individualscan choose to instead testifyduring the testimony period before the
appropriateagenda category.
Individualswho do not indicateto staffwhen they would liketo testifywillbe called
during thistestimony period.
For the public'sinformation at future Council meetings, the Council may receive
testimony before each category of the agenda only.
Chair,the firstindividualwe have signed up to testifyisSean Lester. To be followed
by Andrew Choi.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Lester.
MR. SEAN LESTER [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-70, 22-71,22-73. & 22-76: and
BillNos. 93 (2022) and 110 CD1 (2022)1:
Yes, ma'am. I'mjusttryingto figureout how to unmute my video. Here we go. Aloha
kakou. Hi. It'swonderful to see allof your faces and those which we cannot see
because of the voting and those who are on theirway to,from the airport.So, thank
you allfor being here. Ijustwant to take 30, I'm going to literally.I'vegot fiveor six
things,but I'lltryto make itinthree to four minutes.
The firstthingthough, Iwant to take 30 seconds and justsay how extraordinaryitisto
have our form of government. In a transitorytime ina few months, thisentirebody will
change. We'll do itwith kindness. We willdo itwith awareness. And we willpass it
on to next people thatwillbe on the Council, or those which are staying. Ijustwant to
take a second to reallyletthatsoak inhow precious thatisinthisworld thatwe livein.
Firstthing I'dliketo speak to is the Bill110, CD1, for the ordinance, for relatingto
homes of unmarried survivingspouses of veterans and severely disabled veterans. I
cannot tellyou how much Iappreciate thisbody taking thisto heart,and pushing itfast
so thatwe can get these veterans taken care of as quicklyas possible. You, once
again, the Maui County Council issettingprecedence forthe State,and perhaps, fora
good portionof the United States. So, thank you forhaving thatforward vision.And 1
highly recommend thisbe passed as quickly as possible.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 9
The second is on 93, the billfor ordinance amending Section 3.48.450 relatingto
homeowner exemptions. Once again, 1thinkthat thisis a good firststep, because
you're startingto reallyhelp people, as well as push to tryto get our, our, our renters
to,to be motivated to do that. Ithinkthatperhaps next,next year there'llbe much more
of a possibilityof bringing in more taxes to tryto help with affordablehousing. But
thank you so much forthisstep. Iknow it'sbeen a lotof work.
Onto Committee Report 22-70 on affordablehousing, relatingto the use ofvehiclesfor
human habitationon County property. I know thisisnot an easy one to.to,to work
with,yet we have to findsome solutions,some interimsolutions.And I really,once
again, appreciate you taking a look at this. I know it'sonly a firststep. But I highly
recommend thatto be passed on. And. and 1,I'mforthat.
22-71, dealing with agriculturalfencing. Yes, over seven-foot is reallygreat for the
deer. We justhave to make sure thisdoesn't end up with mega houses puttingin
20-foot walls. So, ifthere needs to be any changes to that,Iwould say perhaps look
inthe directionofmaking sure it'sbeing appliedforwhat it'ssupposed tobe. not helping
millionairesmake their,make their,theirplaces intofortresses.So, that'ssomething
I'dreallybe concerned about.
22-73, as faras the 22-159, dealing with the house or whatever thatmega-mansion is
on Lower Honoapi'ilaniin Napili. Yes, there needs to be questions asked. 1 mean,
how this, how this Administration, how the Victorino Administration allowed this to
happen is a travesty. And to take your time to have to go back and straightenout
something thatthe Administrationhad isjustunconscionable. And I'm sorry thatyou
have to spend your time likethisgoing in to actuallylook at what the Mayor and his
Administrationhas done. But again,thank you fortakingthe yeoman's tasks thatyou
do as a Council.
Onto 22-76, reading the State JudiciaryChildren'sJusticeCenter forMaui. Wow, that,
that'sso amazing. Thank you so much for doing that. It'sto provide services for
childrenvictimsof sexual and physicalabuse and childwitnesses ofdomestic violence.
There's nowhere forthese folksto go. And thank you so much fordoing that.There's
a kindness and compassion that'sprofound with that. And Ithinkthat'sallI had to
speak about. So again, thank you forbeing there. Thank you foryour work. And a
hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions forMr. Lester? Ifnot,thank you very much, Sean, and
good to see you.
MR. LESTER: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 10
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisAndrew
Choy. To be followed by Kapono'ai Molitau.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. ANDREW CHOY. DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOMELANDS [testifying on Bill
No. 121 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee. Good morning, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Members of the
Council. My name isAndrew Choy and I'mtestifyingon behalf of the Department of
Hawaiian Homelands on BillNo. 121. The Department of Hawaiian Homelands is in
strong support of thisbill.
The proposed amendments to the County Code Section 3.48.455 willprovide financial
relief to beneficiaries that have a homestead lease within the County. Often,
homestead lessees who are inarrearsof propertytax payment findthemselves inthat
situationdue to unfortunatetraumatic events. Preventing a homestead lessee from
claiming a home exemption and creating a higher tax burden forthe lessee willmake
iteven harder forthe lessee to make payments on back taxes owed to the County, and
further put the homesteader in arrears. This billwillhelp to break this cycle and
increase the likelihoodthata lessee willcomply with a repayment plan to the County.
Mahalo nui foryour considerationofthe department's testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members are there any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
(Councilmember Molina arrivedatthe meeting at 9:24 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisKapono'ai
Molitau. To be followed by Todd Cullison.
MR. KAPONO'AI MOLITAU [testifyingon BillNo. 123 (2022)1:
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Thank you very much forallowing me to speak. My name isKapono'ai Molitau.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 11
(Spoke inHawaiian.)
Aloha, my name isKapono'ai Molitau,and I'ma Kumu Hula of Halau Na Hanona KGlike
‘O Pi'ilani.My mother tongue ismy language of Hawaii. The richness of thislanguage
from border to border is important indeed to alland the vast enlightenment of our
ancestral wisdom is found within the lands we learn from.
As an educator in both public and privateschools in Hawaii for over 20 years, I have
seen the amazing growth of our students that have ‘aina-based educations and have
been grounded in ancestral wisdoms, Hawaiian culturalvalues, and the use of their
mother tongue intheirown homeland. As a Kumu Hula forthe past 29 years, Ihave
witnessed the growth of many of my students that have gone on to furthertheir
educations to come back and serve our communities of 21st century learners in both
publicand privateschools here on Maui.
Today, this BillNo. 123 has the opportunity to continue to help provide an amazing
‘aina-based educational school that continues to educate the future learners and
leaders of Maui Nui. I have been involved with Ke Kula O Pi'ilanifrom itsinceptionand
have seen firsthandthe amazing determination,will,and aloha thatthisschool, staff,
and leadership has shown to itshaumana and its‘ohana that itserves. I strongly
encourage allof you to support this billfor Ke Kula O Pi'ilaniand theirstrong
stewardshippresence in‘laoValley.
In a time of change in an ever presence influxof overwhelming uncertaintiesin our
world, itisamazing to see healthy stewardship of ‘aina,which we know as aloha ‘aina
and malama ‘aina and the ever present sounds of our keikithrivingin a space that
allows them to see the world and learnthrough the lens of theirkupuna.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Thank you very much foryour time. Any ... Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Kapono'ai. Members, are there any questions? Ifnot,thank you.
MR. MOLITAU: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. See you at home.
MR. MOLITAU: Bye.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 12
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
Oh, we have present with us, Member Mike Molina. Welcome. Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Good morning and aloha, Madam Chair. Sorry for being a
littlelatetoday forour Council meeting. For the record, I am transmittingout of the
Paia District Office and there are no testifiers. And I'm accompanied by my executive
assistant Ana Lillis. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you and welcome.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Todd
Cullison. To be followed by Mike Moran,
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. TODD CULLISON. HAWAII NATURE CENTER (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-186):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Todd Cullison. I'm the
executive director of the Hawaii Nature Center. Mahalo forallowingthe Hawaii Nature
Center to providetestimony regardingagenda item 22-186. Since 1981 on Oahu, and
in the 1990's on Maui, the Hawaii Nature Center has been connecting kids and adults
to nature. Inthistime,over one millionkeikihave passed through our facilityto discover
the wonders of this,of nature.
So, I'm here today to support the above referenced resolutionforthe purchase ofthis
parcel. However, in providingthissupport, 1wanted to make sure thatour elected
officialsand the broader community understand thispotentialsale does not mark the
end of Hawaii Nature Center's time in Maui. Rather, we see thisas an opportunityfor
us to strengthen our programming, connect with more underserved kids,and investin
our community via environmental education programs. So, the Hawaii Nature Center
isexcitedand appreciatesthisopportunitythatwillallowus to stayconnected to Maui
and do what we do best, and that'sconnect kids to nature. So, I'm happy to answer
any questions, ifthere are any.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much
MR. CULLISON: Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 13
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI; Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'msorry,we have a question. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Thank you. Did we lose Mr. Cullison? Aloha, Mr. Cullison.
Just for clarification,the Hawaii Nature Center isa willing. . .
MR. CULLISON: I'm having a hard time hearing you Councilmember. Isa willing?
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Seller.
MR. CULLISON: Yeah, it'sa winning seller,absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Okay, great. Thank you.
MR. CULLISON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah and connected to that then, you willstillbe on Maui,
but not necessarilyat the location,since you're sellingit,or are you also going to
continue working with the current organizationthere?
MR. CULLISON: Yes. That, you know, that'snot fullydetermined. We willbe working with
the KKOP to see ifthere'sopportunitiesforus to stay on-siteforsome duration. But
we do not plan on leaving Maui at all. And thisjust,itkind of depending on that
particularlocationtheirneeds.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MR. CULLISON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Cullison,foryour testimony.
Ijustwanted to clarify,are,are we, the County, locked intothispurchase? Or isthere
danger thatsomebody else could purchase the property?
MR. CULLISON: Isthatquestion to me, Councilmember?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. to you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 14
MR. CULLISON: Oh, I certainlycan'tspeak forthe Council. We have lettersof intentthat
have been signed by, by the County of Maui. And my understanding, I’m not a
professional. ..that'snot a binding agreement. But there'sa letterof intent,and then
ithas to pass whatever committees and votes here. And then the due diligencewould
start.And again. I'mnot tryingto speak forthe County. I'mjustkind of repeatingwhat
I’velearned through the process. And ithas to move through the process likeany other
realestate transaction. I hope I'm accurate in saying that. And hopefullyIanswered
your questions.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, it'sbeneficial to take action today to move that process
along iswhat you're saying?
MR. CULLISON: Iwould agree with that,yeah. I mean, again. I'm not a realestate expert,
but we have a signed letterof intent,Ithinkiswhat it'scalled.And there'sbeen some
other documents passing back and forth,but nothing isbindingat thispoint.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. CULLISON: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair,isthatyou?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo, Chair, Aloha, Mr., oh, Idon't see your
last name, Mr. Todd. Mahalo for your testimony this morning in supporting this
acquisition.So, Iwanted to follow-upon Member Paltin'squestion.As Iunderstand
the question,which wasn't a question about our processes, we as a Councilunderstand
how we operate and how we would go enter intoan acquisition.Ibelievethe question
was more about on your end, on whether the property isstillon the market? And
regardingthe urgency oftakingactionas quicklyas possible,sinceanotherbuyer could
potentiallyswoop inand purchase thispropertybefore the County has the abilityto do
so.
MR. CULLISON: Okay. Thank you forclarifying.Sorry ifImisspoken, tryingto,you know,
review what you guys already know. But i guess the shortanswer isyes it'son the
market. To be quitehonest, it'snot likethishas been heavilymarketed. You know,
we were approached by the County, and itseems to be the best fit,quitehonestly,you
know, given thatthe park down below and other publicpropertyup there.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 15
You know, Ithink that ifwe want a better answer than Ican give you, i can definitely
defer to our board members who have more experience in this. But at thispoint,we
don'thave any other buyers to be honest with you, you know? To be frankly,you know,
we have no others. So, we're moving forward with, with the County of Maui. But I
suppose ifthisdeal didn'thappen, then itwould go back out to a marketing campaign
to tryto sellit.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for your response to my question. Mahalo
Chair.
MR. CULLISON: Mahalo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Cullison,forbeing here. So,
you know inyour letterof intent,isthere a deadline thatsays you need to get back to
us before a certain date? Because ! think what the, at least in my mind as a
Councilmember is,because normally thiswould go to a Committee and we would talk
about it.But I'malso hearing thatwe can also bringitup on the flooratsome moment
today.
But Ijustwant to make sure thatifwe have time,you know, to take itto Committee
and, and talkabout itand make sure we get allthe answers, because, you know, this
is,to me, thisisreallyimportant. And Iwant to be able to make sure ifwe're going to
do this,let'sdo itrightfirsttime around. And I reallywant the, I would want the
advantages to belong to the organization,so that our kids willalways be there in
perpetuity.That they'llalways have a placethatthey can calltheirown, right?Because
this istheirplace of learningand that'swhere we allbegin. You know, it'slikeour
second home. So, would you know ifthere isa deadline on thatletterof intent?
MR. CULLISON; I do not believe that there is. I do not believe that there is. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Well, thank you, sir.Thank you. Chair.
MR. CULLISON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 16
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, just point of informationfor the body that when this
item comes up, Michele Yoshimura isalso going to be availableand answer some of
these questions. Thank you.
MR. CULLISON: I would add that I willdo my best to be online when this agenda item
happens ifthere'sadditionalquestions. And I'llanswer to the best of my ability.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Thank you.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, then, isitokay to make Mr. Cullison a resource person for
when the item does come up. Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
MR. CULLISON: A lotof pressure, but yes. I'llbe a resource person.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We'lltryand, ifyou put your number inthe chat,we can call.
MR. CULLISON: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Ifyou want.
MR. CULLISON: For what agenda-
CHAIR LEE: You don't have to watch the entiremeeting.
MR. CULLISON: Oh, that'd be wonderful.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 17
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisMike Moran. To be
followed by Junya Nakoa.
MR. MIKE MORAN, KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (testifyingon Committee Report
Nos. 22-70 & 22-72: and Resolution Nos. 22-174 & 22-181):
Good morning, Chair Lee, and the best Council that I have seen. And the next guys,
obviouslygoing to have changes, so 2023 has a high bar to achieve. So, we want to
continue to express that. I’m speaking forthe Kihei Community Association, and we
have four items thatwe want to speak of in support of allof them. And most of them
have been spoken about before.
Firstis22-70, the vehiclesforthe purpose of human habitat.Iknow she's not here yet,
but her trustystaffiswatching. Our South Maui Councilmember King proposed thisin
her firstyear. We supported itthen,we continue to support itnow. We definitelyhave
people inour community who are the people thatwe want to serve. These are families
that both parents work, sometimes one or even two kids going to school. They just
can'tmake rent. And they justneed someplace where, as awkward as itis to have
three or four people sleeping in a car, ifthat'sthe best they can do, the leastwe can
do isprovide a safe spot forthem to have uninterruptedsleep. So, we hope thiscan
finallymove forward.
Moving onto 22-72. We have mentioned thisbefore on cesspools. We have that whole
neighborhood of Maui Meadows, which is unsewered. So, obviously, there's many
cesspools and maybe septictanks there,but our understanding isa septictank isonly
as good as it'sbeing maintained. Otherwise, italso revertsto that prettymuch being
a hole in the ground. So, any actionthat can be taken to make this get ridof these
cesspools. So, how farwilla milliondollarsgo countywide? Every step forward is a
good step. So, we are insupport of that.
The third item is 22-174, and this is for the Maui Planning Commission. We have
addressed thisnumerous times, the need to get good, qualifiedmix of people on that
Maui Planning Commission. And in Committee we talked about not, about Dr. Mark
Deakos. We hope we can get him in place as soon as possible to give that strong
voice for the natural environment into that, so it'snot only support for the built
environment.
And lastone is22-181. This, again, isa practicalmatter. We have not seen too much
of thisyet,or leastwe're not gettingtoo many reportsof ityet in South Maui. But, you
know, we need to controlthe number of visitors.Every time we give them a new place
to stay,we're invitingmore people to come, and probably for a less expensive way to
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 18
come. So, we are in support of this,getting this under control. And we thank our
Member from the west side,who toldus they have a proliferationof them over there.
So, we don'twant them over here,you know, but you don'tneed them over there either.
So, we are in support of thisas well. So, thank you very much for the opportunity to
testifyon these items thismorning. A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any there any questions forMike?
Yes, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here again, Mr. Moran.
I kind of likehaving you hanging around with us. You're almost likethe ninthboard
member. But,so my question to you is,isitonly homes inMaui Meadows thathas this
problem, or are there other subdivisions inthe Kihei area?
MR. MORAN: We don't believe there's any subdivisions that are unsewered. There are
sporadic spots where there'sa cesspool here or a cesspool there. But that'sthe major
one that is unsewered. And so, we look at that as the major problem, you know.
Picking out the big one firstand then fillingthe littlepukas lateron.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Do you know how many homes there are out there?
MR. MORAN: Yeah, I,Isent an email to the,that community group thismorning but Ididn’t
give then much time cause Iwasn't sure how many homes there are up there. So, I
don'twant to take a guess.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay. Thank you so very much. Thank you, Chair.
MR. MORAN: Thank you foryour questions.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you, Mike. Have a greatweekend.
MR. MORAN: You guys, too. Short meeting, short meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Alright.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Junya
Nakoa. To be followed by Sam Small.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 19
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-73):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
MR. NAKOA: How's it? How’s it? How's it,yeah? Talkingabout that investigationof the
Planning Department and the PublicWorks Department. You guys know how long I've
been asking forsomething, you know, we need one TIG or whatevers, you know. But
at leastit'shappening. Because we allwatch the news. We see allthe kine crooked
stuffhappening on the other islands. Oh, yeah, infact,Istay Oahu so on thisisland
and allthat kine stuffyeah. So, you know, let'sgo justmake sure it'snot happening in
our island,on our island, and in this Administration.
Itriedcontactingallofyou guys yesterday and thismorning, letyou guys know thatthe
Mayor finallywhen commit to one meeting with the Lahaina people at the Lahaina
Civic. And I know Yuki Lei and Alice Lee, at the GREAT Committee, you guys was
asking, you guys likehear about, hear from the community, yeah. Thank you guys for
that,cause you guys when lightone fireunderneath my okole forgo, you know, forget
this buggah going. And so, the buggah coming. So, ifyou guys likelistento the
community, trycome, cause Igoing mobilizeand organize forget everybody forcome
over there . . .
It'sgoing to be August 21, 10:30 inthe morning. It'sa Sunday. Inever, Inever make
the arrangements, the Mayor did. So, that'swhen itis. So, you guys come over there
listento us. We going scream. We going yell. I don't know how they going, Idon't
know how he going do urn. But you guys gotta,should come check, please come
check urn out,and hear from the people.
Cause, I mean, I not,the Planning Department, I know you guys get urn forthe Greg
Brown house, but I been tryingto get local,localdevelopers to help them get their
permits passed. But Itellyou rightnow, inthatthree months Iwas trying,one guy lost
his house, lostabilitybecause the loan,he couldn'tget the loan because the thingtook
too long. Yeah, so something's got to be changed. I know you guys when go build
the,you guys got the auditfrom thatother group, the kine you when go trydo .. .but
let'sjust make itright. One localfamily just lostout on gettingone house. And I
thought, Ithought that'syour guys hard work, tryingto get localpeople inhomes, you
know. You guys, that’swhat you guys do. You guy's, Igive you guys creditforallthe
stuffyou guys doing to help the locals get into the homes likethat. Awesome,
awesome, awesome. So, let'smake sure that the permitting process, itgets cleaned
up and fixed and what not.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 20
So, justlettingyou guys know, Ifullysupport thisinvestigation.Itneeds to be done. I
hope not only,1 hope thatthey juststartsomething where not only the Greg Brown
house, but everythingabout that Planning Department and everything about Public
Works, whoever isin charge with the permittingprocess. Because come on man, 1
just,inonly three months Ihad to deal with urn and Iwas sickand tiredof the system.
Can you imagine these localdevelopers that livehere alltheirlife.They tryingto just
make a livingforallthe fellowcontractors,you know, and allthat kind stuff.And they
cannot even get one, they cannot work because ofthe permittingprocess.
My braddah, the one Italkingabout, he justgot one house approved. And that,you
know, hard work, you know? So, let'shelp make thissystem bad ass likeyou guys are
bad ass. This Council isbad ass. I'vebeen saying that how many times? Let'smake
thispermittingprocess bad ass. Okay, you guys have a good one. Imua Napili,State
championship, yessah.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, imua Napili.Any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Hey, Junya. Nice to see you allhandsome with your new
look. Clarifying,clarifyingquestion. Where isthisAugust 21, meeting at 10:30? The
location?
MR. NAKOA: Oh my bad, my bad. It'sLahaina CivicCenter. But it'snot inthe hall.He get,
he gettingum, he making urn insidethe gym, not inthe hall.Not on the downstairs,in
the,inthe upstairsinthe gym.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
MR. NAKOA: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Nakoa, foryour testimony.
Ijustwas wondering inyour reference to the Feds and the Oahu Planning, and Hawaii
IslandPlanning,have you reached out to them about Maui County Planning?
MR. NAKOA: IfigureItry,you know, Ifigure I go through the process, yeah, and trygo to
you guys, in respect to you guys. Again, justcould startsomething. Iwhen callum
up, but Inever get too farwith them. So, maybe, maybe with thishappening, get,may
lightone fireunder theirokole too,you know what Imean? So, yeah, Ithink it'sgoing
to be very crucialto have thisinvestigation.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 21
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I justwas clarifyingcause, as you know, whatever
happens, we cannot take action. They would be the ones, or somebody else would be
the one to take action.
MR. NAKOA: Correct. And that'swhy, that'swhy Iwas saying that maybe with allthisstuff,
they can take action. You know, sometime we gotta lightthe fire underneath
somebody's okole,yeah, forgo make them do something likethat. So, with thisstart,
yeah, and Iknow thatyou guys no can take action,but with thisstart,maybe the Feds
can take action. And that's what I like cause when Italkto the Mayor, he told me for
go sue Greg Brown. And Itoldhim, brah, ifIhave to,then Igoing to sue the County.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: One other clarifyingquestion. Are you aware, since you
brought up Hawaii County and Oahu actions, was that preceded by a Council
investigation,or did they justdo ita differentway?
MR. NAKOA: Ithinkthey did um one different,Ithinkthey did urn one differentway according
to the guys Iwhen talkto,cause then we do that COVID, the COVID thing. And the
braddah stay running for officerightnow. He told me that itwas done by private,
somebody like,not one, not you guys, not the Council or whatever. Somebody when
bring um up and when do due diligenceto go pursue the investigation.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Thank you forthatclarification.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions.Members? ifnot,thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: You guys have a good one, yessah.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testifyisSam Small. To
be followed by Robin Knox.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Sam.
MR. SAM SMALL, (testifyingon Committee Report No, 22-73):
Good morning. Chair Lee. Thank you. As always, it'san honor to be participatingin
this process. I'm so thrilledactually that, you know, you folks are pursuing this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 22
investigation,regardless of what's, you know, Federal actions have happened inother
places. 1think it'sindicativeof what's coming here on Maui.
It'sobvious that,you know, there are deep-rooted problems, and the Council does have
the responsibilityto pursue any issue thatcomes before the Council. That's what this
investigationis. It'shistoric.We're thrilledthatthe Council recognizes itsauthorityto
be able to launch this kind of investigation. It'snever happened before. It'sa, it
represents a levelof accountabilitythat isabsolutely sorely needed at thistime.
The audit of the Planning Department was brutal. It'sout of control. The, the
statements made by the DirectorMcLean are,are completely inappropriate.They are
totallywithoutprecedent. They're doing,they'repullingstrings,they'remaking stuffup
to protectGreg Brown. You have a development with,you have stackingofpermitson
top of each other thathave never happened before. An afterthe factSMA minor permit
has never happened before. You have a, a, a, I mean, how do you remove square
footage from a structurethat'salready been built?imean, justthe logicof it.
We have accusations,you know, affidavitsof,of,you know, an understanding that
bribes have been taken. Resignations because of that kind of stuff.So, it's,it's,you
know, and, and the Department is desperate to try and stop you from doing this.
Director McLean submitted testimony, a written testimony, it'sa whole PowerPoint
presentationthrough the Mayor's Officein,inthe lastCouncil session. They were not
invited.The, the Directorwas not invitedto participatein those sessions. And she
says. I'm sending thisbecause, you know, you're not givingme the courtesy. Well,
they don'tdeserve the courtesy atthispoint.The Department, Michele McLean herself
isa named defendant ina case thatwraps around to Greg Brown. And she islikelyto
be investigatedinyour investigation.And so, how isthat,thatshe can comment even?
And Corp. Counsel isthe same way, justlike,you know, withthe lightingbillthatCorp.
Counsel was told only to comment on legalityand form. And yet, they hired a
consultant and they rewrote the entire legislation. Completely inappropriate,
overstepping theirbounds. So, 1urge you to use thisinvestigationto understand where
legislationneeds to be fixed.That isyour job. And, and we thank you forapproaching
it. Use this investigationto expose the loopholes, fixthe loopholes,and restorethe
credibilityof our departments. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. SMALL: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Good to see you. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 23
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person we have signed up isRobin Knox. To be
followed by Lisa Darcy.
MS. ROBIN KNOX [testifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-70, 22-72, & 22-73: Resolution
No. 22-181: and BillNo. 118 (2022)1:
Aloha. Good morning, Councilmembers. Good morning, Chair Lee. Thank you for
allowingus to testifyon thisagenda that'sjustjam packed with reallywonderful things.
I'mjustwish Iwas focused enough to comment on allof them, but I'mjustgoing to limit
myself to fiveor six.
22-70, the vehicle habitation.This isso important and urgentlyneeded. Ido know
people who are livingin theircars. And I do know that gettingsleep is a major
component of health. And these people that Iknow, some are familieswith children,
some are couples who both work, people who own businesses and they'relivingin
theircars. And ifwe could remove thatanxiety associated with not knowing ifthe police
are going to wake you up and make you move, or the anxietyofthinkingthatyou'rein
danger from criminalswho, you know, prey on people likethat. You know, ifwe can
remove thatlevelof anxiety,Ithinkwe'llsee a big improvement inthe health of these
folkswho are ina reallydifficultsituation.And Ido want to support them inthatway.
So, I'm insupport of that bill.
For 22-72, the State Revolving Loan for cesspools. Iattended recentlyat UH Maui
College,a seminar given by water. I'msorry.Wastewater AlternativeInnovations,that's
a nonprofitgroup, along with Ridge to Reefs, and Sunshine . . .Solutions,which isa
localMaui business. And they have some reallyinnovativeideas about how to replace
cesspools and how to replace them with something betterthan septictanks,which are
especiallydifficultto installifyour lot'ssmall or ifyou'reon blue rock,where therewould
literallyhave to be blastingto put in a septictank. So, I,itwas said in that,inthat
seminar that the lack of funding from the State Revolving Loan was a big obstacle.
And that ifwe could get that funding,we could help homeowners, there could be a
grant to a nonprofitand the nonprofitcould help homeowners with replacement of
cesspools.
And to answer Pro Temp Kama's question about the numbers, thismay not be the
most accurate number, but I do recall that it'sin excess of 600 cesspools in Maui
Meadows. And when Iwas doing research with Universityof Hawaii,we were looking
at the stableisotopes of nitrogen.And we did see a small signalat Keawakapu Beach
that led us to believe that we might be seeing the effectsof cesspools in the ocean
there. So, that'svery important. Cesspools put raw waste rightintoour drinkingwater,
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 24
rightintothe water that'sblowing intothe oceans. So, using State funds that are at
one percent interest,Ibelieve,forthose loans and some of those can be grants, that's
justa no-brainerto me. We should definitelydo thatand Isupport that.
Napilihouse, 22-73, Iam very much insupport of continuing investigationsand to find
out what's going on with the Planning Department. And I'lljustsay in my observation,
it'snotjustthe Greg Brown house inNapili,thatthere seems to be a patternofbehavior.
And so, the more we can find out about that,and correct that,the better offwe willbe
countywide with alldevelopment.
Bill118, with the USGS. I'lljustsay they are the best science people inthe world for
water. And we definitelywant to support having arrangements with them where we
can have theirsupport in managing our. . .
And then, lastly21, I'm sorry,22-181, regulatingthisnew phenomenon of,you know,
mobile vacation rentals.This isreallyimportant to nip thisinthe bud. There's so many
implications. And I'm glad that you're seeing the distinctionbetween the vacation
rentalsand the people who are livingintheircars. The vacationrentals,ifthey'renot
at a,a County or State park,the concern, ofcourse, iswhere istheirwaste going? Are
they illegallyparking? Are they affectingneighborhoods? And then,ifthey'reparking,
or ifthey'recamping in a legalcampground, then they'retakingup space thatlocal
familieswould want to camp. And you know, my experience is it'shard to, to go
camping because there'snot enough spaces. So, Ithink,you know, we definitelyneed
to regulatethatactivityto the benefitof Maui County residents.And that'sall1had.
Thank you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions forMs. Knox?
Ifnot,oh Member, Pro Temp Kama has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. So, thank you forbeing here thismorning.
So, you know, earlierthere was someone who testified,oh, Ithinkitwas Mr. Moran
that talked about the milliondollarsthat was going to be put,thatfrom the Department
of Health thatour Mayor isentering intoan agreement to get thismilliondollarsto help
with what you are talkingabout. So, and Iwas looking atthe homes inMaui Meadows
as one ofthose to be able to help take care ofthose issuestoo. So, when you'retalking
about the matching, were you referringto thatmilliondollars,too,or were you talking
about something else?
MS. KNOX: No, Iwas referringto the State Revolving Loan Fund-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 25
MS. KNOX: -which ismy understanding ofwhat we’re talkingabout.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MS. KNOX: And priorto thispoint,what the people at WAI toldme was that,you know, the
Mayor hadn'tagreed to itand that'swhy itwasn't going forward. So, anything we can
do to make thathappen. You know, a milliondollarswillgo a long way to help these
homeowners. Because really,you know, ifyou thinkabout it,it'snot fair.They built
legally,and now, you know, they'vebeen toldthisisnot good and they need to replace
itand it'sreallycostly.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Yeah, itis.Okay. Well,thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MS. KNOX: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you, Robin.
MS. KNOX: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
Alright.Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up totestifyisLisa Darcy.
To be followed by Faith Chase.
MS. LISA DARCY. SHARE YOUR MANA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-70):
Good morning, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DARCY: Nice to see everyone. My name isLisa Darcy, and Iam the founder of Share
Your Mana. And I am also a commissioner on Healing Solutions for Homelessness.
And 1have long COVID, so Ididn'tget a chance to look at the entireagenda likeRobin
said.
But Iwould liketo testifyon 22-70. And Ijustwant to acknowledge thatthisCouncil,
through a lotof discomfort,has listenedto people with livedexperience. And there is,
was a lotof time during the pandemic where Share Your Mana brought forward
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 26
informationthatwas very uncomfortable. And thisgroup embodied it.And Ijustwant
to publiclythank allof the people who, who trustedShare Your Mana inthe visionthat
when thisCouncil understood what they were going through, they would act. They
would act. And thisbilldemonstrates thatyou listened,and you heard them, and you're
acting.So, one is,1justwant to say, Iwant tothank allthe people with livedexperience
who did share everything, I also want to thank the Council for listening,and really
listeningthrough allof the harshness of it.
And lastly,Ijustwant to say thatthisbringshope, it'sone ofthose invisibleingredients
thatwe don'tcapture indata. Hope doesn'tget a piece of a report.And thisisactually
something that demonstrates hope. And as we know hope can be a lifelinefor every
one of us as a human being. And I'mfullysupporting it.And Inever thought thisday
would come. And thatithas got,you know, support.
And I'm sorry,maybe Ididn't,it'snot that Ididn'ttrusteverybody, but itwas so hard.
You didn'tsee what Iwas seeing allthe time. And people were terrifiedto share this.
And now thatso many community members have also jumped in and said,hey, Isee
thistoo,thisisreallyimportant.We're justgoing to have to win the Administrationover
with,we're so stoked forsuccess. And you know, ifyour, ifyou don't,ifyou'recautious,
be cautious. But it's,it's,it'sready to go. It’smaking reasonable steps. And Iam, I
am so gratefulto every being,and allofthe people thathave trustedthisprocess. And
itisa difficultprocess. So, hurray. Thank you. And thank you forbeing there. Really
appreciate thisCouncil.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lisa. We have a question foryou from Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Commissioner Darcy.
Good to see you. Iknow you do a lotof outreach, so I'm,can you come and letthe
committee know, or the Council know the feedback you've gotten from this? Is
everyone, what's the word on the street? Are they reallyhappy about this?
MS. DARCY: Yeah, 1should actually,Ishould make a video. But you know, Ido everything,
so it'shard. The, the word on the street, ifI were to use localspeak is nah. Nah.
That'swhat 1get,nah, it'sreallyhappening? Igo, Itoldyou, Itoldyou, you got tojump
in on thistrainforthe long haul. This isnot something thatwe're going to make one,
we aren'tgoing to take one littleprotestor one, you know, or one begging. This isa
long haul. You got to jump on the train.And Ijust,people are inshock. They're in
shock.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Great, that's wonderful to hear.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 27
MS. DARCY: Yeah. So. thank you. And thank you forhistoricallybringing individualswho
had the experience. They're the experts. I'velearned everything from them. Imean,
I have a lotof, I've studied a lot,and I've read a lotof reports,and I'vemet a lotof
people internationallyand nationally.Anyway, but you are the one who brought those
individualsup to,to hear itthrough theirexperience. And that'swhere we learn. That's
where the rubber meets the road, so.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you.
MS. DARCY: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: There’s a lot of moments that we have inthis,in this Council
that we'llnever forget.And thatwas one ofthem, when those folkscame out to testify.
So, thank you so much. Thank you. Chair. Ihave no furtherquestions.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.Members? ifnot,thank you very much, Lisa. Good to see
you.
MS. DARCY: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testifyis Faith Chase.
Faith Chase is actuallythe lastperson we have signed up to testifyduring thistime
period. So, ifanyone would liketo testifyon allremaining agenda items at thistime,
please identifyyourselfinthe meeting chat. Thank you.
Faith Chase.
MS. FAITH CHASE (Committee Report Nos. 22-70 & 22-71):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. CHASE: Good morning. Chair Lee. Good morning. Council. I,Iam invery much support
of this,thischanging ofthe Charter,Iguess, what isit?It'sthe County Code, I'msorry,
relatingto the use of vehicle for purposes of human habitation.It'sa long time,we
spoke about thisin Committee. I'm a little,I'm a littleconcerned about, Iwatched the
mayoral debate on PBS Insightslastnight and I'm a littleconcerned about some ofthe
comments made about the parking lotsbeing reserved forthe tourists.And I don't
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 28
thinkthat's,1don'tthinkthat'sa necessary conversation rightnow, as itrelatesto the
parking lot.It'staken us so long to get where we are.
Ijustwant to say, Iappreciate itand Ihope it'sa unanimous vote. But also, to kind of
highlightthe interesting,you know, the Mayor. . .you know, in,inthe interimof this
being solid and pau, I would reallyhope ifthere'sany representation from the Maui
Police Department and Mayor's Office,thatwe are conscientious about any ticketsthat
are, shouldn'tbe given. Because until,untila said parking lotis chosen, and the
beautiful$200,000 for a safe parking lotisactually,you know, complete. But in the
interim,can we justbe really,reallycompassionate and understanding of those who
are needing thatvehiclespace untilthen?
1 know I'vesaid itbefore in Committee, but, you know. I'vespent 60 hours talkingto
the community policing,whoever was on duty,tryingto make sure that people don't
get arrestedforhuman habitation.Even $35 fora human habitationon a County piece
of land ishard, isa hardship forpeople. So, justplease, ifeverybody could justkeep
that in mind. Because ifyou thinkabout it,thisis,thisisan act of admission thatwe
have a problem. So, untilwe get there,please be conscientious. It'sexhaustingtrying
to support people. My, my eldestdaughter and Lisa Darcy spent tirelesshours going
to court representingpeople thatget intothese situations.Thank you. 1,Iecho a lot
of what the previous testifier,Lisa Darcy, said. I'm happy forher hard work coming to
fullfruition.
1wanted to make one comment on the axis deer piece. The fencing,Ididn'tget to go
to that Committee meeting, but Ijustwanted to say to keep an open mind about that
grant thatisalso relatedto paying forfencing to help protectfarms,gardens, ranches,
people's properties.The overallfeedback from that isthat 12 acres isactuallya big
stretch. So, ifthere isfeedback that comes back, or ifnot allapplicants go to use, go
to Lokahi Pacificto,to seek funding because theirlotsare not 12 acres or more, please
keep thatin mind and findsome flexibility,or some exceptions,or whatever. Ipredict
thatthat'sgoing to be around the corner. Not everybody islargelandowners. Thank
you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Faith.
MS. CHASE; Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 29
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person we have signed up to testifyisKanamu
Balinbin.
CHAIR LEE: Kanamu?
MR. KANAMU BALINBIN, NAPILI BAY COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (testifying on
Committee Report No. 22-73):
Yes, good morning, everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. KANAMU: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yep.
MR. KANAMU: Thank you very much. Firstof all,Iwould liketo thank you guys forholding
thismeeting today and allowing me to testify.I'mtestifyingon behalfof the NapiliBay
Community Association,and the people that livedirectlyacross Greg Brown's house,
the Kulukulualani's,the Kalua's, the Espiritu's,the Wahinehookae, the McCabe,
Akana's, Reimann's, Medeiros Family across the streetthat,thatare very upset about
this,about thisbuildingbeing erected by Greg Brown.
You know. I'm,I'mtestifyinginsupport of 22-73, auditingthe Planning Department and
Public Works. I'dliketo thank Tamara Paltinfor addressing thisissue. You know, I,I
have a couple of concerns. You know, Iseen the letterthat,thatMichele McLean had
wrote with the,with the Mayor's stamp. You know, and she has some whereas this,
whereas that,whereas this. You know, I,1 really,the one whereas that I remember,
when she came to the meeting with us down there,she flat-outsaid ifshe was inthe
officeat the time, she would not have approved thispermit. You know, but yet,she's
stilltryingtofightthisinvestigationand, and writingtestimony,writingwrittentestimony.
. . .went to you guys or justto the executive committee. But there'ssome Sunshine
Laws, Ithink,was violatedwith her doing that,ifshe's allowed to do thatkind of,you
know, her and Corp. Counsel seem likethey always tryingto block,blockthingsthat
you guys are doing forthe betterment ofthe community. But I'dliketo commend you
guys forgoing through with this.
You know, Iwould like,also like,you know, Idon't know how you guys going do this,
but independent counsel needs to be involved. I don't know ifCorp. Counsel, you
know, 1,1had a Board of Ethics complaint with,you know, withMoana Lutey and Corp.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 30
Counsel with my allegationsof briberythat I’veseen and. and witnessed at, in the
Planning Department.
First,what happened with the, with, with Rulan Waikiki back in the Arakawa
Administration, there should be documentation on that. Ithappened, probably, Ithink
in 2012, around there. And itwas hard back then. You know, Iwasn't in,Iwas, Iwasn’t
intothe politicalscene at that time, but when we brought itup to Mayor Arakawa's
Administration,you know, there was, there was some push-back. You know, he kept
saying you know how hard itisto fire,fireor investigatea publicemployee.
And we reallywant thisto move forward. And I commend you people for,Tamara,
thank you very much forintroducingthis.And Mike Molina,hopefully,hopefullymaybe
you, Mike Molina, you can do an independent investigation.Because, cause what
Moana said in,inyour meeting, the GREAT meeting was in,was inCouncil chambers
and ... Thank you forallowingme to testify.You guys allhave a great day.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Balinbin,foryour testimony.
My clarifyingquestion is,when, when you said thatyou were testifyingon behalfofthe
NapiliBay Community Association, lasttime when we had thisitem in Committee,
some ofyour members was saying thatthey were going to get to us some affidavitsor
something. And just clarifyingthat we never did receive any of those. My, my
recollection also was that itwent before the Board of Variances and, and that was filed
as well. So, Iwas wondering, when were the documents, cause I'm not planningto
scheduling ituntilwe receivethose documents, cause that'sthe new informationthat
you guys were saying inCommittee, right?
MR. BALINBIN: Right.Affidavitsregarding,regardingCorp. Counsel?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Idon't know. Ididn't receive them. You guys were saying you
had allthese thingsand Inever receive anything.
MR. BALINBIN: Oh no, Ihave, Ihave, Istillhave the affidavits.So, yes, Iwill,Iwilldefinitely,
I had forwarded over to, to another board member. So, we need to.I'llget thatto you
as soon as possible,Tamara. Thank you forthe,forclarifying.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. BALINBIN: And bringingthatto my attention.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 31
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions,Members?
Member Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here, Mr. Balinbin.So,
you know, you mentioned in your testimony that you would liketo see the GREAT
Committee do a, a furtherinvestigation.So are you looking,so the PSLU isgoing to
look intoa formal investigation.What are you asking the GREAT Committee to do?
MR. BALINBIN: Well, you know, well,Moana had made some statements about her doing,
you know, that'swhat my Board of Ethicscomplaint was, was filedon. You know, she
had statedduringthe GREAT Committee thatthatPlanning had done an investigation.
And Ihad statedthat,you know, usuallywhen you, and she had toldme herselfto call
CID to get informationon the,on, on theirinvestigation.And Idid. And CID toldme
thatthey didn'thave anything. No. no, no record of anything from Corp. Counsel, or
Planning,or any type of that,of alleged bribes.
So, so, you know, as a, as a privatecitizenwho has some lawyers intheirfamily,you
know, lawyers usuallygot to tellthe truth.So, ifshe going,she going send me to,send
me to other entitiesto, to find documents and then they'renot there,then, you know,
why would she do that? That's my understanding.
You know, it's,she, my Board of Ethics complaint was referredto the ODC. Iwas
referredto, by Corp. Counsel to, to, to furtheritto the ODC because, because of
Charter,because of Charter amendments. They're not,it'snottheirjurisdictiontosettle
these complaints. So, that'swhat, that'swhere this,my Board of Ethics complaint is
going next isto the ODC.
So, you know, I,Idon't know what Ican do, Ms. Kama. Ijustdon't,I,forme. as a, as
a dad, and a businessowner, and somebody who's reallybusy, Ino more time forgo
chase around at the, at the request from Moana Lutey to,you know, ask her when,
when was itdone, when . . . ? She told me well itwas a independent in-house
investigation.And CID, because briberywas, was said,that CID would have, you
know, they would have to have calledCID, which Idid,and they didn'thave a record.
So, you know, it's,Ijustkind of want answers, ifthey reallydid one investigation.Ifit
just... or,or wala'au or just,you know. She toldme they did.
And you know she's,the thingthatreallygets me isthatshe used to liverightthere,
rightinthatarea of Greg Brown, and Iwent to school with her. So, with her tellingme
something, Ikind of feel,as a Lahainaluna graduate and fellowclassmate, she's one
year older than me, good friendswith my cousin guys, cheerleader,I played on the
Regular Meetingofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 32
footballteam, allof that,itallcame intoplay to me, tellingme like,wow, thisishow,
thisis what our, thisto me itwas frustratingbecause she is the Director of Corp.
Counsel and she led me on likethe wildgoose chase that something that never even
happened.
So, I,I’m,Iam. I'm upset about that,took me, you know, itwasted an hour, to me it
wasted an hour of my time thatIcould have spent with my kidssurfingor coaching kids
infootballlikewe do rightnow, throwing the football.You know, justhanging out with,
doing things other than--
CHAIR LEE: Kanamu, Ithinkyou have answered her question.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And there willbe opportunitiesto furtherdiscuss thismatter.
MR. BALINBIN: Thank you very much. Okay, sorry fortaking so long. Iget.I'm passionate
. ..okay.
CHAIR LEE: Iknow you are. We know you are. Any more questions--
MR. BALINBIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: -Members? Ifnot,thank you Kanamu.
MR. BALINBIN: You guys have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
MR. BALINBIN: Okay. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Kala
Tanaka.
MS. KALA TANAKA [testifyingon BillNo. 123 (2022)1:
Mahalo. Aloha everyone. Aloha iakakou. Aloha to allofyou. I'mreallyexcitedabout
thisCounty Council. A lotof good thingsthatI'vebeen passionateabout have really
been moving forward and Ithinkthisisone of them. So, justthank you forthe good
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 33
that you’re doing, and you continue to do forthe betterment of our community. And
especially in seeing the value of working towards places that provide impactful aina-
based education and that are of extreme value to our culture.
And Ke Kula ‘o Pi’ilaniis certainlya school that 1 believe that provides for thisvital
educationalsetting.And justas a shortbackground, Ijustgraduated from thisamazing
graduate program offeredthrough the College of Education atthe Universityof Manoa,
and my focus was curriculum studies. And, you know, there'sa huge value and
importance forplace-based learning,as wellas being very criticalabout the curriculum
that we are teaching to our students. And I know that can be a challenge in the
Department of Education in publicDOE. And that,so there's,so such extreme value
for schools that have more freedom to teach and do what they want to do. And Ithink
Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani is one of them.
And so, Ijustwanted to offermy support today infavorof BillNo. 123. And Iam a
parent,actually,ofa childwho attendsthisschool. He iscurrentlyin5thgrade,buthe
has been attendingthatschool sincehe was inkindergarten.So, he'sbeen a student
for the past fiveyears, which means that his family,as well,has been a partof this
school forthis,forthisfiveyears.
And Iwanted to add that I'vewitnessed justfirsthandhisgrowth as a child,you know,
as a keikiand a student, and interweaving diverse systems of knowledge. And I'm
talkingabout Hawaiian knowledge, Hawaiian ways ofknowing,as wellas western ways
of knowing, as well,too. And hisunderstanding ofplaceand learningfrom place.And
inturn,thatjusthas fostereda truealoha forour place,ourhome, Maui,‘Tao,justthis
aina of Wailuku. And especiallya love forlearning.
And Ithinkallchildrenneed to have that,reallyand truly,thatfoundationof a lovefor
learning,and thatsetsthem up fortheirfutureas well,too.And I'veseen hisstrengths
in being grounded of,in Hawaiian values and practices.And atthe same time,he's
also learningscienceand math thathispeers inother,Iwould say,DOE settingsare
also learningas welltoo. And Ireallyattributethisto Ke Kula ‘oPi'ilaniforgrounding
him inwhere he comes from and nurturinghim to be a life-longlearner.
So, thismorning Iasked him, you know, why? Why does he likeKe Kula ‘oPi'ilaniso
much? Cause he iscertainlyone ofthose kidsthatare so excitedtogo toschool.He'd
rather be at school than be at home. And he said to me, we do a lotof fun stuff.We
go tothe kahawai and oli.We holoholo.We do experiments atthestream. ...ifthere
islead inthe stream. And he's like,Ilikemy school, because we do a lotofexploring.
And so, ifyou thinkabout it,thisiswhat my hope and dream isforeverychildinHawaii.
And so, again, Ijustwanted to offermy support inthatbillforan ordinanceofthe Bill
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 34
No. 123. And Ireallyhope thatyou move forward forthisbecause, for allof our keiki
of Hawaii. But this,especially,thisissuch an amazing place of learning. So, mahalo
to allof you. Thank you forthe opportunityto speak.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, are thereany questions? ifnot,thank you very much for
your testimony. Thank you.
Okay. So, Mr. Clerk,do we have any more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other testifierswho are indicatingthat they
would liketo testifyduring thistime period. But we'lldo a lastcallifthere isanybody
who wants to testify.
MS. FRANCINE AARONA (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-70):
There is one more.
CHAIR LEE: One more?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. Hello?
MS. AARONA: Yeah, sorry. Ijustpunched in.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Aunty Mopsy.
MS. AARONA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Good morning.
MS. AARONA: Good morning. I'msorrytojustbarge in. Ijustneeded to--
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no. But for the record, can you state your name, so that we got you
down on record.
MS. AARONA; My name isFrancine Aarona. I'malso known as Aunty Mopsy. And mahalo
so much forallthatyou do forus forthe County of Maui. Inormallylisten,tryto listen
to the meetings, and believeitor not I'mwashing clothesout here,tryingto getthings
done.
But anyway, I'mconcerned about CR 22-70. And Ijustspeak forPaia alone. Iam all
forcaringforthe homeless and caringfora place forthem to sleep. However, Ihave
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 35
reservationsinthe areas thatyou choose, especiallythe publicareas, justlookingat
Paia. And I know you heard about the firewe had lastFriday,where thisvacant lot
across the street has millions of cars. But some of those cars are people thatuse, they
use to sleep in.
So, inmoving forward with thisbilland with thisprocess, Ibeg you to take everything
intoconsideration,the safetyof people, the publicareas that you choose that belong
to the County of Maui. Ifthere'svacant places that you can purchase, that can create
a parking lot,safetyforthese people to,to put theirheads down. Iknow there'smany
of them. I categorize them as homeless and helpless. And we need to keep the
helpless out there,take care of them, but we also need to care forthe people thathave
to rest their heads, and care for theirchildren, bathroom facility,showers, allof that is
involved in all this.
So, Ijust,1am infavor of you moving forward with this,but with reservationsof where
you have it,how you set up the security,and the fencing ... Ifyou'regoing to have
locked gates,then you reallyneed 24/7 of securitythere so ifanything happens, they'll
be able to exitwith caution. So, mahalo forallyou do again. Mahalo forallowingme
to barge inand share my manao. You allhave a blessed day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do we have any questions forAunty Mopsy? Ifnot,thank
you very much forjoiningus today. Aloha.
MS.AARONA: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have been notifiedthat there issomeone to testifyat
the South Maui District Office.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Daniel,do you have someone forus, a testifier?
MS. CARA FLORES (testifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-70 & 22-72):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Good morning.
MS. FLORES: It'sCara Fiores. ... Ijustgot through the Kiheitraffic.Ihope you can hear
me. I'mjust--
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 36
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak a littlelouder?
MS. FLORES: Yes, I'lltryto talka littlebitlouder. Okay. So, I'mtestifyinginsupport of22-70.
Ithinkit'simportantthatwe decriminalizepoverty,and 1thinkthat'sa good step towards
doing that,making sure it'snot illegalforpeople to sleep intheircar. And also providing
them the abilityto do that safelyisreallyimportant.
On 22-72, Isupport this. There's a lotof property owners with cesspools who can't
affordto convert them. And it'ssomething thatwe reallyneed to do and so I'dliketo
see thathappen. So. Ithinkthat'sa good step towards solving that problem.
And there was one more, sorry. Well, Ithinkthat'sit.1was justtestifyingin support.
And mostly Iwanted to say thank you guys for passing some good legislationto help
people and tryto,especiallyhelp the most dis-trodden among us. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions forMs. Flores?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Flores foryour testimony. I
just wanted to clarifyon your criminalizationof those sleeping in theircars, doesn't
relateto those takingvacation and sleeping intheircars,thatthey would ...
MS. FLORES: Yeah. Yeah. Well,yeah, we don'twant more people using,you know, Airbnb
type oftrailersand sleeping inthem. So, yeah, justhabitationforpeople who livehere.
1thinkthat'simportant.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Just cause that'sa differentitem on there. So, just
clarifyingthatyou're not speaking againstthatitem.
MS. FLORES: No. I'm sorry,I'm tryingto look at my phone. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
MS. FLORES: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Flores.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 37
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the lastperson we have signed up to testifyisBrad Salter.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Salter?
MR. BRAD SALTER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-73):
Good morning. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. SALTER: 1justwanted to respond to Councilperson Paltin’srequestforinformationthat
the NapiliBay, I'ma, I'm a board member on the NapiliBay Community Association.
And I understand that Kanamu Balinbin did not have some information that was
requested. And really,that informationis forthcoming once we know that this
investigationhas been approved. Reallybefore that,there'sno forum to submitthat
information. But Iassure you that itwillbe submitted. I’mgoing to tryto see ifIcan
come on video rightnow, Idon'tknow. At any rate,Iwant tomake surethattheCouncil
knows that we willsubmit information that willgo to Mr. Brown's violations.They will
be specific.
And 1justdon'tthink,Ithinkit'sa bitpremature to do thatuntilthisinvestigationhas
been launched. And then, and then, I promise that we willhave enough information
thatwillmake itvery easy for,forthisCommittee tocontinuethisinvestigationintothe,
you know, the bad behavior. I don'tthinkwe want to reward the bad behaviorof
Mr. Brown indeceivingthe County withthe buildingplans,and size,and dimensionof
his, of his structure.
So, Ijustwanted to clarifythat.You know, we're,we'rebusy puttingthattogether,and
we willprovidethatforCouncilonce thisinvestigationhas been approved. Then we
willgive you lotsof informationregardingthat.So, Iwanted toclarifythatforCouncil.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And I just wanted to clarifythatthat
informationshould be sent to pslu.committee@mauicounty.us and thatitwon't be
agendized untilwe receive it.Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 38
MR. SALTER: Thank you very much. Councilmember Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else,questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk,do we have any more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyat this
time. We'lldo lastcallagain. Ifthere isanybody else who would liketo testifyright
now, please identifyyourself now. Again, lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any objectionsto a ten-minute break at thispoint?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
WRITTEN TESTIMONY RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING
WERE MADE A PART OF THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Kumu Kapono'ai Molitau;
Kahu Kekai Robinson, Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani;
Ivan and Maria Akau;
Jamie Ka'iulani Athearn;
Rachael Au Hoon;
Alyson N. Barrows;
Barbara Barry;
Renee S. Bayes;
Evelyn Brito;
Gary A.L. Brito;
Jeffand Mary Caye Carlson;
Shelley Caparso;
Christina Cervantes;
Chaylise K. Chang;
Margaret Haleloke Garcia Dalzell;
Konane de la Nux;
Diana;
Erin Drayer;
Lindsey Drayer;
Mary Drayer;
Krystin Kanani Duarte;
Eric L. Dustman, Montessori School of Maui;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 39
23. Anna Eckart-Dodd;
Lani Eckart-Dodd;
Jay Franey;
Denby Freeland;
William E. Garcia Jr.;
Ron Han Jr.,State of Hawaii Office of Veterans Services;
Ivy Lou Hibbit;
Keala Ka'opuiki-Santos;
‘Ghana Kalawaia;
Johanna Kamaunu;
Kaleleonalani Kekauoha-Schultz;
Michael A. Lilly;
Abigail Llewellyn;
Cummins K. Mahoe III;
Gloria Marlowe;
Lahela Mata-Goldmann;
Rebecca McLean;
Pbhaikealoha Naihe;
Julie Marie Niem;
Carmela Noneza, HANONA;
Kaleilani Olsen;
Daniel Ornellas;
Joylynn Paman, Kimokeo Foundation;
William C.S. Park;
Andrew Perry;
Miki'alaPoepoe;
Leimana Pu‘u;
Ellen Kahanu Raiser;
Keali‘iReichel and Henohea Kane;
Nalu Robinson, Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani;
Paul Robinson;
Louise Rockett:
Chris Salem;
Leah Santos;
Kayla Shaw;
Amy Stephens;
Hau‘oli Thielk;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce; and
JD Wyatt.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so Ihave 10:31. So let'sresume at 10:41. Meeting inrecess.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 40
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:31 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:42 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT
COUNCILMEMBER KING "EXCUSED".)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of August 5, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, let'sresume where we leftoff.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on minutes. At thistime there
are no individualswho have signed up to testifyon minutes, but we'lldo a lastcall.If
there are,isanybody who would liketo testifyon the minutes, please identifyyourself
now. Again, lastcall.Chair,there isno one to testifyon minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closingtestimony on the minutes?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk,please proceed withthe minutes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of April22, 2022, was
presented at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 41
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes as read by the Clerk.
Any discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye'
please.
(Councilmember King arrivedat the meeting at 10:44 a.m.)
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Isee one, two, three,four,five,six,seven, eight"ayes",and Ihear one
"aye". So, nine "ayes",motion carries.All"ayes",no "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk,letthe,oh yes, letthe record show thatMember King has joined us. Good
morning.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Aloha, Chair. Thank you for,for,excuse my tardiness.1advise
anybody who doesn't need to come inor out of Kiheito notdo thatuntilsometime this
afternoon.
CHAIR LEE: Was there an accident?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: There was some downed powerlines and so that'sallstop and
go trafficin and out of Kihei,both on Veterans Highway and on Honoapi'ilanigoing
through North KiheiRoad. So, you'llget stuck intrafficanyway you tryto come inand
out.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good to see you and glad you couldjoinus.
Mr. Clerk,please proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on the Consent Calendar. No
individualshave signed up to testifyon items withinthe Consent Calendar. We'lldo a
lastcall.Ifanyone would liketo testifyon any of these items,please identifyyourself
now. Again, lastcall.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 42
CHAIR LEE; Members, any objectionsto closingtestimony on the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- LORI TSUHAKO, DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 27, 2022)
NO. 22-171
Transmittinga copy of the noticeof grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing
& Urban Development for the Section 8 Housing Program, in the amount of
$26,499,121.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated July 7, 2022)
NO. 22-172
Transmittinga copy of the noticeof grant award from the Stateof Hawaii,Executive
Officeon Aging, forthe NutritionServices IncentiveProgram, intheamount of$83,225.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 27, 2022)
NO. 22-173
Notifyingofanticipatedvoluntarycontributionsto be receivedfrom seniorsparticipating
inthe Congregate Meals Program, inthe amount of $90,000,withno letterofintent.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 43
NO. 22-174 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 27, 2022)
Notifyingof anticipatedvoluntary contributionsto be receivedfrom seniorsparticipating
in the Home Delivered Meals Program, in the amount of $116,748, \A/ithno letterof
intent.
NO. 22-175 - ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
(dated July 1,2022)
Transmitting a copy of the modified grant agreement from the State of Hawaii,
Department of Transportation for the Maui Prosecutor's Office Impaired Driving
increasingthe grant amount to $8,491.02.
NO. 22-176 - ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
(dated July 14, 2022)
Transmittinga copy of the noticeof grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of the Attorney General, Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division,for the
Special Needs Advocacy Project(SNAP) totaling$841,813, which includes$1,000 In
administrativecosts and $168,163 in matching funds.
- ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEYNO. 22-177
(dated July 14, 2022)
Transmittinga copy of the noticeof grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of the Attorney General, Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division,for the
STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program totaling$71,623, which
includes $17,906 in matching funds.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, I'msorry,she's not here at the moment. This isher mom.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, could you turn offyour mic?
Mr. Clerk,please proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 44
NO. 22-178 - KARLA PETERS. DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION
(dated July 13, 2022)
Transmitting the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department of
Education for the Play and Learn Sessions (PALS) Food Service Program in the
amount of $100,000.
NO. 22-179 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated July 19, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement W-1, Earl and Allison Ichimura
Officeand Warehouse, Lot 8 of the Burns Tract,TMK: (2)3-4-025:026 POR.
NO. 22-180 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated July 21, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of a Warranty Deed for Roadway/Road Widening Lots,
Maui Business Park - Phase II,TMK: (2) 3-8-001:268, 270, & 272, (2)3-8-006:080 &
091, (2)3-8-101:037 - 039, (2)3-8-102:002 & 003, and (2)3-8-103:031 & 032 POR.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated July 11,2022)
NO. 22-181
Informing of a vacancy on the Fire and Public Safety Commission due to the
resignationof Dylan Andrion, effectiveJuly 11, 2022.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(datedJuly 12, 2022)
NO. 22-182
Informing of a vacancy on the Board of Ethics due to the resignationof Linda Kay
Okamoto, effective March 31,2022.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated July 15, 2022)
NO. 22-183
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui Planning Commission due to the resignationof
William Gordon Greig,effectiveJuly 13, 2022.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 45
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,I,oh sorry.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura to fileallitems on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion? No discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair says, "aye". So, isee all"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Communications, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on county communications
and general communications. Chair, at thistime, no individualshave signed up to
testifyon eithercounty communications or general communications, but we willmake
this a lastcall. Ifthere is anybody who would liketo testifyon these items, please
identifyyourselfnow. Again, lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closingtestimony on communications and general
communications?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-184 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated July 8, 2022)
Transmitting 137 contracts/grantsforJune 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-184, EXCEPT
FOR THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King,to fileall
of the items,unless requested otherwise by any Members. Discussion?
Member King and then Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Chair.
IWOULD LIKE TO REQUEST C, ITEM C7432, 34 AND 37-1, BE
REFERRED TO THE CARE COMMITTEE. THESE ARE ALL
RELATED TO THE CLIMATE CHANGE, SUSTAINABILITY,
AND RESILIENCE WHOLE-SYSTEM SOLUTIONS IN THE
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 47
I ALSO WANTED TO REQUEST C7410-1
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.
HOPING MAYBE I CAN REFER THAT TO MEMBER
SUGIMURA'S COMMITTEE, THE. THE INFRASTRUCTURE
COMMITTEE.
WHICH IS
AND I, I'M
Ithinkyou were dealingwith a lotof the infrastructureforEV's, isthatcorrect?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Are you willingto take thatone?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, great. Thank you.
AND THEN, THE LAST ONE IS. IS G5465-1, WHICH IS THE,
THE GRANT FOR. I DON’T SEE THAT ON HERE. 5461. IS A
PLANTING TREES GRANT. OKAY. G5465-1, TREE PLANTING
IN MAUI COUNTY. ITS A TIME-EXTENSION ON THAT ONE.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Anymore?
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
YEAH. THE LAST ONE IS C7676-1, LAUNIUPOKO BEACH
PARK GRAYWATER REUSE SYSTEM.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
TO THE CARE COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so all,allofthe,as mentioned by Member King referred,to be referredto
the CARE Committee, except forthe one having to do with the EV vehiclesto the IT
Committee, right?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 48
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: And then, Isaw another hand up. Was itMr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yes, Chair. Ialso see the Clerk's hand up as well.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies to interrupt.Just want clarificationon what
Committee willG5465-1 go to?
CHAIR LEE: To the CARE Committee, right? Allto the CARE Committee, except for the
EV vehicle matter.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST TO PULL GRANT G5686 INTO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE, NAMED HIEHIE
HOMELESS OUTREACH, PROJECT VISION OF HAWAII, FOR
$62,500 PLEASE.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members? To the request?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want to pullany other grants?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 49
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
G5708, BOVINE TB RESPONSE. AND C. AS IN CHARLIE.
7318-2, PULEHU AND HANSEN ROAD SAFETY EVALUATION
TO IT PLEASE.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so ordered, forthose two contracts.Anymore contracts?
Alright,Members. We willvote on the motion which was to fileallof these contracts,
except forthe ones noted by, individuallyby the Members. So, allthose infavor of that
motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
NO. 22-185 - MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS.
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE,
(dated July 28, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill22 (2022) entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER
INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII
JUDICIARY FOR A FOUR-YEAR AND ELEVEN MONTH LEASE OF 2,070 SQUARE
FEET OF OFFICE SPACE AT 2103 WELLS STREET. WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII
96793".
CHAIR LEE: And this is recommended for referral to the Budget, the BFED Committee? No?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Then, we'll,I'lljustcallon Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Can we defer action on this
ASF untilwe take up Committee Report 22-76, ifthere are no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This one willgo with Committee Report,what did you say?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 22-76.
CHAIR LEE: 22, okay, we'lldefer thisuntilthisCR comes up.
(See page 66 through 71 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with communications for referral.
- SANDY BAZ. MANAGING DIRECTOR
(dated July 20, 2022)
NO. 22-186
Transmittingthe FiscalYear 2022 4^*^QuarterCIP Reports.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-186 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-187 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, FINANCE DIRECTOR
(dated July 22, 2022)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loansfrom the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General ObligationBonds Series2022 Fund as of
June 30, 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-187 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 51
NO. 22-188 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. FINANCE DIRECTOR
(dated July 27, 2022)
Transmittingthe Short-Term Investment Reports as ofJune 30, 2022 (FiscalYear 2022
Fourth Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-188 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR,
(dated July 28, 2022)
NO. 22-189
Transmitting a listof approved unbudgeted equipment requests forFiscalYear 2022
from April1, 2022 to June 30, 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-189 be referredto the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated July 28. 2022)
NO. 22-190
Transmittingthe Budget Implementation Report as of June 30, 2022 (FiscalYear 2022
Fourth Quarter).
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-190 be referredto the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. FINANCE DIRECTOR.NO. 22-191
(dated July 29, 2022)
Transmittingtwo reportson the settlementof claims as of June 30, 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-191 be referredto the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 52
NO. 22-192 - HELENE KAU. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated July 21, 2022)
Transmittingthe State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reportsforMay 2022 forallregisteredwell reportersinthe County of Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-192 be referred to the
Infrastructureand TransportationCommittee.
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-3 - CAROL K. REIMANN. A & B PROPERTIES HAWAII, LLC
(dated July 6, 2022)
Submitting the 2022 Annual Report pursuant to Condition No. 19 of Ordinance
No. 3559, Maui Business Park Phase IIChange inZoning.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 22-3 be referredto the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto the referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on committee reports. Chair,
we currentlydo not have any individualssigned up to testifyon committee reports.We
willdo a lastcallnow. Ifthere is anyone who iswanting to testifyon any committee
report,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closingtestimony on committee reports?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 53
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-70 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 108. CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 10.76 AND SECTION 13.04A.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO USE OF VEHICLES FOR PURPOSES OF HUMAN HABITATION AT
COUNTY PARKING LOTS." be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO
PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-70.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendations inCommittee Report 22-70.
Discussion, Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Your Committee met on July 14 to
discuss Bill108 entitled,"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10.76
AND SECTION 13.04A.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, REU\TED TO THE USE OF
VEHICLES FOR PURPOSES OF HUMAN HABITATION IN COUNTY PARKING
LOTS".
Bill108's purpose isto laythe groundwork forestablishinga pilotprojectforhouseless
persons to temporarily use theirvehicles for the purpose of human habitationon
County property.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 54
Under current State law, itis prohibitedto use any vehicle for human habitation
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. while parked on any roadway, street,
highway, or other public-privateproperty. However, State law allows each County to
enact their own ordinances, such as Bill108, regulating the uses of vehicles for
purposes of human habitation.
Bill108 would enable the County to establish a safe sleeping zone for our houseless
folks.A pilotprojectforthisreceived an allocationof up to $200,000 inthe FiscalYear
2023 Budget.
Your Committee heard from testifiersabout the challenging, challenges people face
when they have no choice but to sleep intheirvehicles including:policecomplaints;
need to relocatefrequently:fear of theftor assault;and lackof basic necessitiessuch
as water and restrooms.
Safe sleeping sitesat parking lotsthat are controlled,selected,and supervised by the
County would help protect and support our most vulnerable community members,
includingoff,offeringon-sitewrap-around services to help those transitionintobetter
livingsituations.These and other parameters of the pilotprojectwould be discussed
once the projectisready to be introduced.
Before us today is the enabling legislationto establishthe projectas a temporary
response to houselessness. Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend the passages
of Bill108, CD1 (2022) on firstreading. Irespectfullyrequestthe Members support of
my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I,Ijustwant to thank Councilmember Gabe
Johnson, the Chair of the Affordable Housing Committee, for expeditingthison your
agenda, Mr. Johnson. It'svery important to move the grant projectalong,as you know,
and also,forhaving the foresightto bringon.
And Iwant to thank the testifiers,and resource people thatwe had. Because we had
Lisa Darcy, who pushed through her COVID illnessand came on virtuallyto be a
resource person. We had three of our most expert people, who are actuallylivingthe
experience, you know, not ever thinkingthey would be inthissituation,who came and
advised the Committee. And 1thought thatwas very brave.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 55
And Iwant to thank the Committee, also, for the level of respect and reverence they
gave to these people forcoming forward and sharing theirexperience with us. So, I
speak instrong support of the motion and reallylookingforward to moving ahead with
the grant project.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, justa question forChair Johnson on this.So, 1know
that Parks did not come to your meeting. And Iwondered from thattime to now, ifyou
had a chance to talk to them? Cause they have a lotof propertiesfor County
properties,Ijustwondered what effortwas made inbetween?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for that question,
Councilmember Sugimura. Ihave not spoken with Parks at thistime,but we certainly
could send them a letterand see ifthey can get a response. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, thank you. As the proposer of this bill,I did personally
speak to Karla Peters about thisissue, and Ithink Imentioned thatat the Committee
meeting as well,thatshe isopen to lookingat potentialpark. And working with a . ..
projectifwe can identifya spot.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more comments or questions? Allthose in favor of the motion
please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Everyone "aye",so nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 56
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-71 AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 101 CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 16.26B.105, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO FENCE
HEIGHTS FOR AXIS DEER CONTROL", be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-71.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
committee reports,the recommendations inCommittee Report 22-71.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your Committee met July 12 and discussed
Bill101 entitled,"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 16.26B.105
OF THE MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO FENCE HEIGHTS FOR AXIS DEER
CONTROL".
BilllOTs purpose isto allow the construction and existinguse of fences over seven
feet in height without a building permit when such fences are used for axis deer
mitigation.
Your Committee noted an estimated 60,000 axis deer in Maui County with axis deer
on Molokai on pace to outnumber residentsten to one.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 57
Your Committee also noted previous axis deer related Emergency Proclamations by
the Governor, which has already resulted infences over seven feet high.
Your Committee discussed the benefitsof allowingthese fences to protectagricultural
operations from the extensive and costlydamage thataxis deer can cause to pastures,
native vegetarian,vegetation, irrigation,animals, and crops.
Chair, your Committee amended Bill101 to also protectconservation areas, cultural
sites,and public roadways from axis deer incursion;used the definitionof "fences"
provided in Title19. While fencing willnot solve the problem of unmanageable axis
deer populations.Bill101 as amended, willallow some measure of protectionsforour
farmers, ranchers, conservations.
So, your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage of Bill101, CD1 (2022) on first
reading. Irespectfullyrequest the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1justwanted to add to the discussion that
the definitionof "fence" is separate from the definitionof "wall",for the testifiers
comment and forthe record. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, justso the Committee knows, Ichecked
with Lance De Silva with DLNR and, on this bill,and they said thattheirfences with
DLNR regardingmitigationisover eightfeet,istheirkindofstandard. And he alsosaid
thatthey alsofollowState Law Chapter 343, EnvironmentalCompliance. And so,they,
theirheightissomewhat regulated,or they have the libertiesbased upon that.And he
said thatthisbillwillbe good for privatelandowners to help them with mitigation.
Whenever we have a Governor's Proclamation, which we're now in, I think the third
one, that puttingup fences, and itallows action to be taken without going through the
normal process, and one of itisthe permittingprocess. So, ifthere are organizations
that are tryingto put up fences now in the Emergency Proclamation,they can do it
without going through the rigorous process. Or ifthey do the, the Emergency
Proclamation willhelp them through the process. That's probably a betterway of
saying it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 58
But thank you, Mr. Sinenci for doing this. There are a lotof axis deer and we're all
tryingto do our littlepiece to conquer these critters.Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Questions? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion to
approve Committee Report 22-71, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, now we can see the Vice-Chair. And the vote was unanimous; all
"ayes", zero "noes". Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-72NO. BUDGET AND FINANCE COMMITTEE:
(2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
111
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH FOR A LOAN FROM THE STATE WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL REVOLVING FUND FOR THE COUNTYWIDE RESIDENTIAL
CESSPOOL CONVERSION PROGRAM," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-72.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 59
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the recommendations inCommittee Report 22-72.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.Your Budget,Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on July 13, 2022, to discuss Bill111 (2022). This bill
would authorizethe Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmentalagreement with the State
of Hawaii Department of Health fora loan from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund
for the Countywide ResidentialCesspool Conversion Program in an amount not to
exceed $1 million.
Your Committee discussed the proposed pilotprojectand confirmed that the final
amount of funding willdepend on how many other counties apply. Maui County has
applied for$500,000 infunding but could receiveup to $1 million.
A representative from the Mayor's Office of Climate Change, Resiliency, and
Sustainabilitysaid thatthe County's own program isstillinthe beginning phase, inthe
beginning phases of development, to includethe manner, to includethe manner the
program would be rolled out to the public and the identificationtargeted areas;
however, the County does anticipatestartingthe program with Upcountry Maui.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage on firstreading of Bill111 (2022).
Irespectfullyask the Councilmembers support of the motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 60
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-73 CLIMATE ACTION, RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-159. CD1 .entitled"AUTHORIZING A COUNCIL
COMMITTEE TO CONDUCT A FORMAL INVESTIGATION OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF PLANNING AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS RELATED TO THE
COUNTY'S ISSUANCE OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS FOR REAL PROPERTY
LOCATED AT 5385 LOWER HONOAPI'LANI ROAD, NAPILI, MAUI, HAWAII," be
ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sorry about that. 1had a hard time with thatbutton. Thank you
Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-73.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCi:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-73.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Your Climate Action, Resilience,and
Environment Committee met on July 13, 2022, to discuss Resolution 22-159, to
authorize your Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, PSLU, to conduct a
formal investigationofthe Department of Planning and Department of PublicWorks on
permittingprocesses and operating procedures concerning the County's issuance of
development approvals for real property located at 5385 Lower Honoapi'ilaniRoad,
Napili,Maui, Hawai'i,otherwise known as the "Greg Brown Development".
Your Committee notes that your Government Relations, Ethics,and Transparency
Committee, GREAT, met on June 29, 2021; November 16, 2021; November 24, 2021,
as a reconvening, reconvened meeting; March 15, 2022; March 22, 2022, a
reconvening, reconvening of that meeting; and March 24, 2022, another reconvening;
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 61
and May 24, 2022, to discuss community concerns over ongoing constructionforthe
Greg Brown Development.
As discussed by your GREAT Committee, the Department of Planning granted the
Greg Brown Development an exemption from the requirement for a Special
Management Area or SMA use permit as a "single-familyresidence". The Department
of Public Works laterissued, and then rescinded, a stop-work order forthe project.
Afterconcerns were raisedby the community lastyear,the Council enacted Ordinance
5233 to prohibitnew hotel use and limitbuildingheights to 35 feet in the NapiliBay
CivicImprovement District,which iswhere the Greg Brown Development islocated.
Your Committee notes Resolution 22-159's adoption would triggerlimitedpowers to
subpoena County officersand employees, but the subpoena power does not extend to
former County employees or members of the public.
Your Committee notes Section 3-6 (3) of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui
(1983), as amended, authorizes the Council to "conduct investigationsof . . . "the
operation of any department or functionof the County".
Your Committee further notes the Council or a designated Council committee is
authorized by Section 78-9, Hawaii Revised Statutes, to compel persons elected,
appointed, or employed by the County "totestifyto answer any question regarding"...
"the government, property,or affairs"of the County under oath or affirmationwhen
conducting a formal investigation.
In addition,your Committee notes the purpose ofa legislativeinvestigationisto gather
and analyze factsto help the legislativebody make well-informed policydecisions on
potentialfuturelegislation.For the Council,the potentialfuturelegislationcould include
annual budget ordinances, amendments to the County Code, and proposed Charter
amendments. Legislativebodies, such as the Council, and itsstanding committees,
are not enforcement agencies or courts of law and have no authorityto adjudicate
penalties.By definition,a legislativeinvestigationisnot punitive.A formal investigation
allows the Council committee to use, ifnecessary, the fullrange of powers affordedto
a legislativebody.
Your Committee furthernotes your GREAT Committee has spent extensive resources
discussing and receivingoraland writtentestimony on the Greg Brown Development
thisterm; however, the testimony was not received under oath or affirmation.
Your Committee notes members of the public have expressed lingeringconcerns with
the Greg Brown Development, includingthe following: 1) That the Department of
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 62
Planning may be issuing SMA permits on behalf of the Maui Planning Commission
without confirmingthe accuracy of applicants'development valuations,as required by
the Commission's SMA rules;2) That the Planning Directormay not have followed the
established process for SMA enforcement afteralleged SMA permit violationswere
brought to the Department of Planning'sattention;3) That the Department of Planning
may be failingto adequately review privatedevelopers' civilengineering drawings to
confirm thatconstructioncomplies with SMA rules and the Coastal Zone Management
Act.
Your Committee agreed to amend Resolution 22-159 forclarityand accuracy, including
as follows:delete references to swimming pool setbacks; delete a reference to the
West Maui Community Plan land use designation relatingto buildingpermit plans and
applicationstandards; state the outcome of the May 12, 2022, Board of Variance and
Appeals' meeting involvingan appeal of the Planning Director'sdecision to treat a
buildingpermit forthe Greg Brown Development as valid;and extend the date foryour
PSLU Committee to submit its findings and recommendations to the Council to
December 31, 2022.
Your Committee expressed concern with suggestions to limitor outlinethe scope of an
investigation,hire special counsel, or take other related action, and instead
recommended your PSLU Committee be entrusted with the investigation. Under
Resolution 21-4, Draft 1,your PSLU Committee ischarged with conducting oversight
of the Department of Planning, and implementing the General Plan objective to
promote sustainable land use and growth management.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-159, CD1.
Committee, myself as Committee Chair,Vice-Chair Sinenci,and Members Johnson,
Molina, Paltin,and Sugimura voted "aye". Councilmember Lee was excused. I
respectfullyask for the Council's support of your Committee's recommendations.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. There's one thing that I didn'thear
referenced in the committee reportthat was agreed to by the Members to meet the
deadline was off-week meeting. That was an agreement made in Committee that in
order to meet the deadlines of Charter items and others, this item, Members in the
Committee agreed to meeting on off-weeks to get thisdone. So, Ijustwanted that
added intothe committee report.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 63
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay...
CHAIR LEE: Member King, any comments?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. That was, that was said. Itwas, Iguess itwas an agreement
that we made, so itwasn't put intothe committee report. But itison record. And we
can certainlyadd thatto the committee reportifthere are no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And thank you forincludingthat--
CHAIR LEE; --tomaking thatadditionto the committee report?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,no furtherdiscussion. Allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members. Thank you. Member Paltin.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-74 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCYNO.
COMMITTEE:
Recommending thatResolution 22-161 .entitled"AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
RONDA SMYTHE AND LIANA P. KANNO V. BRANDON SAFFEELS, ET AL.. CASE
CV 21-00056 LEK-RT AND ALISHA N.K. CONSTANTINO V. BRANDON SAFFEELS,
AT AL., CASE CV 21-00316 LEK-RT," be ADOPTED.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Sorry,Ihad to sneeze.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Gesundheit.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-161.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Molina and seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt
Committee Report,what was thatagain,22-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 22-161.
CHAIR LEE: -161.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on July 12, 2022, and received an overview
of the claim inopen session by Deputy Corporation Counsel.
The claim alleges various acts of misconduct committed by former Police Officer
Brandon Saffeelsand furtherbrings claim against the County of Maui for an alleged
failureto trainand supervise former OfficerSaffeels.
At the request of the Deputy Corporation Council,your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidentialinformationrelatedto the claim.
The purpose of the proposed resolutionisto authorizethe Department of Corporation
Counsel to settle the claim under terms set forth in the executive session meeting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 65
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-161, with Chair
Lee and Member Sugimura were excused thatday. Iask forthe Members fullsupport
of this motion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any furtherdiscussion? And the motion isto approve Committee Report
22-74, which includes Resolution 22-161. No furtherdiscussion. Allthose infavor of
the motion,please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-75 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending thatResolution 22-167 .entitled"AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
VIRGINIA A. CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF MAUI, DISABILITY COMPENSATION
DIVISION CASE NO, 7-18-01109," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-167.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to adopt Resolution
22-167.
Discussion? Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 66
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on thismatter July 12, 2022, and received
an overview of the claim inopen session by Deputy Corporation Counsel.
Claim alleges work-related injuriessustained from liftinga box on July 6,2018.
At the request of the Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidentialinformationrelatedto the claim.
The purpose of the proposed resolutionisto authorizethe Department of Corporation
Counsel to settle the claim under terms set forth in the executive session meeting.
And your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution22-167, with
Chair Lee and Member Sugimura excused from the vote forthatday. I ask forthe
Members support of thismotion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. Iwonder where Iwent, Mr. Molina? I'mthinking
Igenerallydon'tmiss your meetings.
Allthose infavor ofthe motion, please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-76 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCYNO.
COMMITTEE:
(2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII JUDICIARY
FOR A FOUR-YEAR AND ELEVEN MONTH LEASE OF 2,070 SQUARE FEET OF
OFFICE SPACE AT 2103 WELLS STREET, WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
22
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 67
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 22 (2022) ON FIRST READING
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Johnson, to pass Bill22 (2022)
on firstreading.
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
July 12, 2022, to discuss Bill22 (2022),which would authorizean intergovernmental
agreement between the County and the State of Hawaii Judiciaryfor a lease of
2,070 square feetofofficespace locatedat2103 Wells StreetinWailuku,forthe State
Judiciary'sChildren'sJustice Center of Maui, to provide servicesforchildvictimsof
sexual and physicalabuse and childwitnesses of domestic violence.
The Department ofthe ProsecutingAttorney'sChildren'sPeace Centerwillbe located
adjacenttothe Maui CJC, which would allowforjointservicesbetween the two entities
and enable a collaborativeapproach to help childvictimsand childwitnesses.
Staffincludingthe Maui CJC's Program Director,a secretary,a forensicinterviewer,
and the Friends of the Children's Justice Center of Maui's Executive Director are
anticipatedto occupy the space by the end ofthe year.
And the ProsecutingAttorney said the Maui CJC would be the firstof itskind inthe
State of Hawaii.
And by Resolution 22-15, the Council at itsmeeting of January 21, 2022, authorized
acceptance of the Friends of the Children'sJusticeCenter of Maui'sdonation of paint,
painting,carpetand installation,cabinetry,and countertopsto the County.
And your Committee also noted that it would like to continue supporting the
establishment of this center and expressed appreciation to the Department of the
Prosecuting Attorney forcoordinatingthisproject.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 68
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passing iton firstreading. That day, Member
Sugimura was excused.
And under the lease attached to Bill22, the State Judiciarywould pay the County a
rentalfee of $3400 a month for a lease term of four years and eleven months. Since
the meeting, however, a Corporation Counsel has notifiedthe Committee Chair that
the rentamount was renegotiatedto $3100 insteadof $3400. And Madam Chair,in
order to make this revision,I posted an ASF on today's agenda as County
Communication 22-185.
AND WITH THAT SAID, I’D LIKE TO RE-OPEN COUNTY
COMMUNICATION 22-185 AND MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE THE
PROPOSED FD1 VERSION OF BILL 22 (2022) ATTACHED TO
THE ASF, WHICH INCORPORATES THE FOLLOWING
AMENDMENTS;
1. UNDER SECTION 1 ON THE FIRST PAGE OF THE BILL,
REPLACES "THREE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS
($3,400)" WITH "THREE THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($3,100);AND
2. REPLACES EXHIBIT "1" WITH A REVISED EXHIBIT "1
CONTAINING UPDATED NUMBERS.
1ask forthe Members fullsupport of thisamendment. And then,should itpass, the
main motion as amended. So that ismy amendment to thismotion.Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, to amend
the main motion as, and as read justnow. Any furtherdiscussionon the amendment?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, just a quick question. Madam Chair. Councilmember
Molina,was there a reason given forthe drop inthe monthly rent,orthe annual rent?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 69
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: You know, itwas, Iguess no specificreason other than the
factthatitwas renegotiateddown to,from $3400 to $3100. So, you know, sounds like
a no-brainer to me, we save $300 more a month.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithought thisiswhat the Statewas paying us.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, we're, isn'tthat what we .. . So, we're actuallylosing$300.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Sorry, about that. Yeah, let me make, stand and
correctthat. We didn'tget a specific,Ican'trecall,maybe, Idon't know ifMr. Martin is
on the line?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Mr. Kunkel on the .. . Look likehe justpopped up and he
wants to respond.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL DANIEL KUNKEL: Yes. Thank you. Yes, my name
is Dan Kunkel. I'vebeen assistingAndrew Martin with the negotiation of this lease.
And the reason why the rentwas reduced, wellwe thought we had finishednegotiating
everything back in December of 2021. And then we submitted the ordinance to
approve itin January.
But rightabout when the GREAT Committee was reviewing this,the State Judiciary
said that in lightof the fact that janitorialservices are not covered by that rent,they
wanted the rent reduced by, from $3,400 to $3,100 per month. Janitorialservices
cannot be included. Since the State willbe occupying that space, we cannot use
County Department of Public Works custodian staff.And so, the State Judiciary is
responsible forobtaining theirown janitorialservices.
And we're sorry about thislateamendment, but again we, itwas, we thought itwas
completely negotiated lastDecember. But justrecently,the State Judiciaryrequested
that reduction because of janitorialservices.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That'sa good explanation.Thank you forthat.Appreciate
knowing why the reduction. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Thank you forthe clarification.Any more discussionon the amendment?
Ifnot,allthose infavor,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 70
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Now, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of
the main motion as amended, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the County Communication is stillbefore the body for
disposition.
- MICHAEL J. MOLINA. CHAIR. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS.
ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE.
NO. 22-185
(dated July 28.2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill22 (2022) entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER
INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII
JUDICIARY FOR A FOUR-YEAR AND ELEVEN MONTH LEASE OF 2,070 SQUARE
FEET OF OFFICE SPACE AT 2103 WELLS STREET. WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII
96793".
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'msorry.Madam Chair? I'msorry.I...
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: You want to filethe communication? Make a motion to filethe communication.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Yeah.
SO MOVED TO FILE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, second by Member King,to filethe communication.
Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raise,raiseyour hand and sayAny discussion?
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-77 INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:NO.
Recommending the following:
That Bill 120 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 12.40, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO RENAME KULA COMMUNITY
CENTER TO VON TEMPSKY ‘OHANA COMMUNITY CENTER COMPLEX,"
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-456, from Councilmember Yuki Lei K
Sugimura, be FILED.
2.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 72
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-77.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to approve the
recommendations inCommittee Report 22-77.
Discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Your InfrastructureTransportation
Committee met on September 27, 2021, September, sorry,November 15, 2021, and
July 11, 2022, to discuss a proposed billentitled,"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 12.40, MAU! COUNTY CODE, TO RENAME KULA
COMMUNITY CENTER TO VON TEMPSKY COMMUNITY CENTER COMPLEX".
Your Committee notes, at its meeting of June 21, 2022, the Council passed Bill
No. 100 (2022) to allow County parks and facilitiesto be named afterfamilies.
On October 15, 1952 [sic],Robert Gordon "Boy" von Tempsky granted the Kula
Community Center a 99-year lease ofthe propertywhere the Kula Community Center
islocated. The Kula Community Club then subleased the propertytothe County.
A Deputy Corporation Counsel confirmed thatthe sublease agreement, which expires
on November 30, 2050, does not prohibitthe County from renaming the facility.
Your Committee also notes that the Public Works Commission and the Maui County
CulturalResources Commission both reviewed the acquisition,applicationto rename
Kula Community Center and recommended approval.
Your Committee recognized and expresses appreciation to the legacy and
contributionsof the von Tempsky familyto Maui and the Kula area,and includestheir
involvement, included their involvement with the Maui County Fair; their active
participationinlocalpolo tournaments, rodeos, flowerand vegetable shows; and lease
of pasture land to localfarmers forcrop cultivation.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 73
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend passage of Bill120 (2022) on firstreading,
irespectfullyask forthe Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Iam supportive of the motion.
I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION TO
STRIKE THE WORD "OHANA". SO, I MOVE TO AMEND
BILL 120, BY STRIKING THE WORD "OHANA" AND ADDING
IN "KULA" TO THE END, SO THAT IT WOULD READ VON
TEMPSKY, KULA, SORRY. "VON TEMPSKY COMMUNITY
CENTER COMPLEX IN KULA".
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion on that? Well, let'ssee, do we have a second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
I'LL GET A SECOND ON THAT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez moved, and Member Johnson seconded
to make thatchange. Any furtherdiscussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Very briefly.Ithinkit'sunderstood
without having to say ohana that itimpliesthe ohana. So, von Tempsky Community
Center Complex.
And inprevious discussionsthatwe've had, we identifiedthe importance ofrecognizing
the place,so thatthe facilityisnamed afterthe individualor family,and the place is
not, is also recognized and honored. So, in recognizing Kula in the officialname.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other?
Mr. Krueger.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 74
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Just to clarifyforstaff,isthe amendment to
make that change for allinstances where von Tempsky Ghana Community Center
Complex appears inthe bill,includingthe title?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any, any more discussion?
Pro Temp Kama.
Thank you for the amendmentCOUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
Councilmember Rawiins-Fernandez. So, does that mean that,you know, when we're
going to have to publicizeit,or we're going to have to put a plaque thatthere'sa name,
you know, we always name our community centers'name. So, isthatthe name that's
going to go on the plaque that'sgoing to be frontingor,however we're going to putthis
sign,that'swhat the sign isgoing to say?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Molina,did you want to say something? No?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no. It'sjust interestingdiscussion.
CHAIR LEE: I,I,yes, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1forgotto add that Idid not discuss
itwith the entirefamily,but itwas discussed with a member of the family. Mahalo,
Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Ijustwant to say Ifullysupport renaming thiscenter, because I know
growing up thatthe von Tempsky familywere, they were likekamaaina. Imean, that
they,they were as localas can be. They fullygave of themselves, volunteeredfreely,
and were an integralpartof the community, and I'm happy to support the family.
Any furtherdiscussion? Allthose in favor,1 assume we voted on the amendment
already? Okay, so allthose infavorofthe amendment, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carrieson the amendment.
So, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor,raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Member Paltin,did you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry,slow on puttingdown my hand.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 76
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-78NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution
PLANNING COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO OFF-STREET
PARKING AND LOADING", be ADOPTED.
22-151, CD1 entitled "REFERRING TO THE
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This would be forPlanning and Land Use Committee.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-78.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Paltin,seconded Member King,to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-78.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on June 16, 2022 [sic],and discussed Resolution22-151, referringto
the Maui Planning Commissions a proposed billrelatedto off-streetparking.
The purpose ofthe proposed billisto regulatethe number ofcarsallowedtobe parked
on a residentialpropertyoperating as an automobile rentalor car sharingservice.
Your Committee noted the proposed billwould address an increasednumber of cars
parked in residentialareas, A representativefrom the Department of Planningsaid
parking for residentialproperties is regulated for home businesses under
Chapter 19.67, Maui County Code.
Your Committee noted Section 19.67.030(E) allows for a maximum of four parking
spaces for the home business on lotsof less than one acre and restrictson-street
parkingofvehiclesassociatedwiththe home business.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 77
Your Committee further noted the overnight parking of any vehicle is subject to
Section 10.48.110, Maui County Code, which prohibitsparking on roadways "for a
period of time longer than sixtyminutes between the hours of two a.m. and sixa.m. of
any day."
Your Committee discussed whether an automobile rental or car sharing service such
as Turo is considered a home business.
Your Committee agreed to revise the proposed billto meet the general parking
standards and restrictions similar to those for home businesses under
Section 19.67.030(E). And your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of
Resolution 22-151, CD1. 1respectfullyask forthe Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Any furtherdiscussion,Members? Okay. Thank you. Member Paltinfortaking
up thisvery importantmatter,especiallyitaffectsmany places inthe centralarea.
Allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries. Nine "ayes' zero "noes": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk, are we on resolutions now?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony on resolutions. We
currentlyhave one individualwho's signed up to testifyon resolutions.That would be
Kekai Robinson. Ifanyone would liketo testifyon a resolution,please identifyyourself
now.
Kekai, Robinson, itisyour time to testify.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 78
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In the chat itsaid Ms. Robinson
clarifiedthat,wanted to testifybefore the billscome up, billsection, instead of the
resolution section.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we'llmake a note of that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk,make a note ofthat,okay? So, you want to callup any more testifiers
for the resolutions?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there'sno one else signed up to testifyon resolutions.I
have noted down Kekai Robinson to testifyon Reso 22-186 and then again on bills.
Bills 121 and 123.
CHAIR LEE: On Reso 22-186, did you say?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, does he want to provide thatnow?
MS. KEKAI ROBINSON, KE KUU\ ‘O PI'ILANI (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-186):
Hi. Aloha mai kakou. This is Kekai Robinson. Aloha mai. 1would justsay shortlythat
I'dliketo testifyinsupport of Bill121. Iwillcome back again and, and, and testifyin
regards to Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani.But very shortly,on Resolution121, am I saying it
correct? Oh, Bill121, isthatokay?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: 123. Ithink it's123, isn'tit?
MS. ROBINSON: 123 is the other one that Iwould like to also testifyon.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 79
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Before proceeding, rightnow, we're only accepting
testimony on the category forresolutions.So, Ijustwanted to clarifywith you. Chair,
in case you were willingto accept testimony on other remaining items at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, Ithought I heard her say she wanted to testifyon a resolutionas
well as a bill,but Iguess not. Right, Ms. Robinson? You wanted to testifyon which
billagain? 1, 121.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: One. Yeah, but.
CHAIR LEE: 23, 123, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I think the Resolution is 22-186.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, 22-186. So, that'swhat we heard. Mr., Mr. Clerk,we heard her say
Resolution 22-186 and Bill 121.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, if-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And Bill 123.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We have that allnoted down. So, rightnow, we were going to
calltestimony on the resolutions.And then once the Councilcompletes thatand
completes discussionof resolutions,then we would open up testimonyforbillswhen
the billscategory came up.
CHAIR LEE: So, she should be, she would be able to testifynow then on Resolution22-186?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, let'scallher back. Ms. Robinson? Ms. Robinson?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ms. Robinson indicated that she
would, she's supporting Resolution 1, 186, but willbe testifyingbeforethe billsection
when Bill123 willbe taken up, as wellas Bill121, atthattime ofthe sectionofthe bills.
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 80
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. So, isthat correct,Ms. Robinson? You, you don't want to
testifyon Resolution 22-186 at thistime. Right? You're going to testifyon the bills
later.
MS. ROBINSON; Yes. Mahalo, that'scorrect.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good.
MS. ROBINSON; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any objections.Members, to closingtestimony on resolution.
Oh, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ijustwanted to letthe Members know, and
I'mnot sure the procedure is,Mr. Mark Deakos doesn'tneed topresentany testimony,
but he is available ifMembers have any questions regarding previous commitments
before takingthe Planning Commission. So, I'm not sure ifthe procedure would be
designatinghim a resourceatthispoint.But he'son the lineavailableifMembers have
questions.
CHAIR LEE: Members, you have, do you want to designate Mr. Deakos as a resource person
laterwhen thatitem comes up? Or you don'thave questions?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Idon'thave questions forMr. Deakos, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Idon't have questions or any concerns.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Same here.
CHAIR LEE; Nobody seems to have any questions or concerns atthispoint.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Can you lethim know? Thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so any objectionsto closingtestimony on resolutionsatthistime?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 81
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered. No, testimony isclosed on resolutions.
Mr. Clerk,proceed with resolutions.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-170
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF ANDREE-MICHELLE CONLEY-
KAPOI TO THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-170.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,to
discharge the Committee of thisitem.
And Mr. Molina,your discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. The Council'sdeadline to
approve or disapprove thisnomination isAugust 8,2022. Ifwe don'ttakeactiontoday,
the nomination willautomaticallybe deemed approved, which isthe reason fortoday's
discharge request. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Allthose in favor of the discharge request,raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 82
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN. SlNENCt, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-170, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez,to
v/aivethe Rules of the Council regardingthe Committee referral.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Same reasons as Igave forthe
discharge,thisisa time sensitivematter,so we need totakethisup. Otherwise,we
end up, the nominationjustgets automaticallydeemed approved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-170.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina,seconded by Mr. Sinenci,to adopt Resolution 22-170.
And discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. During the August 2,2022, meeting
this week in the GREAT Committee, we discussed the Mayor’s nomination of Andree-
Michelle Conley-Kapoi to the Maui County CulturalResources Commission fora term
expiringon March 31,2023, to filla vacancy replacingIan Bassford.
Ms. Conley-Kapoi is a Principleinvestigatorfor the Archaeological & Ethnographic
Consultants Hawaii, LLC and a board member of the Maui HistoricalSociety. And she
previouslyserved as a board member forthe Helekunihi CulturalFoundation.
And Members, I'm very confidentthatthisnominee willbe a great asset to the Maui
County Cultural Resources Commission. And I would like to thank her for her
willingnessto serve. And Iask forthe Members fullsupport ofthismotion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,ailthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 84
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-174
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-174.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, on the
motion to discharge.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. The Council’sdeadline to
approve or disapprovethe nominationof Mark Henry Deakos isAugust 22, 2022. If
we don'ttake actiontoday,the nominationwillautomaticallybe deemed approved,
which isthe reason fortoday's discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Allthose in favor of the dischargerequest,raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 85
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes' zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-174, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, on the
waiver of Committee referral.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. This matter isa time sensitive
matter, for the reasons stated during the discussion of the discharge request. No
furtherdiscussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-174.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina,seconded by Member King,toadopt Resolution22-1,did
you say 174 or 76?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Correct. 174.
CHAIR LEE: 174. Okay, 174.
And discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. No, not much discussion.I
guess we allknow Mr. Deakos and hisqualifications.And again,thiswould be fora
term thatexpireson March 31, 2027. So, being that,you know, we know Mr. Deakos
and he'svery,quiteknowledgeable inthisfield,Ibelievehe would make an excellent
nominee to the Maui Planning Commission. And Iask forthe Members fullsupportof
his nomination. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Mr. Krueger.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair. Ijustwant to alertthe body thatforthis
resolution,the, this is one with attachments attached to itand currently.Exhibits"B"
and "C" are blank. So, inorder to effectuatean appointment, they would need to have
a name placed on the appropriateexhibit.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, what are you suggesting,Mr. Krueger?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 87
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,for,for,particularforResolution 22-174, there's an Exhibit
"B" where approved members names are and Exhibit"C" where disapproved members
names are. So, ifthe body intends to approve the appointment of Mark Henry Deakos,
they would need to amend the resolutionto have his name placed on Exhibit "B".
Thank you, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
OKAY, MADAM CHAIR. I MOVE TO AMEND BY PLACING THE
NAME OF MARK DEAKOS ON EXHIBIT "B", WHICH IS TO
APPROVE HiS NOMINATION TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Pro Temp Kama to place
Mr. Deakos name on Exhibit "B".
Any furtherdiscussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No further discussion, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez? Okay, allthose infavor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Main motion as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 88
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair for my opportunity to speak to the
main motion as amended. Ispeak in strong support of the motion. We did discuss
this in Committee, and we did, as Member Paltin alluded to a littleearlier,discuss that,
you know, Mr. Deakos and would be startinga littleearlierbecause of commitments
priorto being asked to serve on the Commission. So, that it'sunderstood by this
Council and the Administration via Mr. Mossman that he would be starting in
November.
And I'mappreciativeof the Administrationand the Mayor forworking with thisCouncil
in agreeing thatsomeone with his expertiseand background in coastal management
should also serve on the planning commissions, allthe planning commissions, thisone
particularlythe Maui Planning Commission. So, mahalo to the Mayor. Mahalo to all
the Members fortheirsupport of this. . . And mahalo Mr. Deakos forhiswillingness
to serve on the Commission. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Wondering why about the two differentexhibits.Any more discussion?
Okay, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes",zero "noes".
Mr. Clerk,anything else on thisitem?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; No. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, justto clarifythat,thatwas the main motion as amended;
nine "ayes",zero "noes",right?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Apologies forthat.Chair.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 89
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-175
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
POLICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair. Ifthere are no objections,I'dliketo call,ask
the Clerkto callup Resolution22-176 so we can take up these both,these two matters
in one motion ifno, ifthere are no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot,ifnot,thank you.
Mr. Clerk,can you bringup 176 as well?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-176
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS,
ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-175 AND
RESOLUTION 22-176.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 90
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, second by Member Sugimura, to, regarding the
discharge requests on Resolutions 22-175 and 22-176.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. The Council's
deadline to approve or disapprove the nominations of Arragon Kekoawi\A/aoleMowat
isAugust 16, 2022, as well as the nomination of Nathan Kalani Ignacio,same day. So
which iswhy the reason fortoday's discharge request because ifwe don'ttake itup
they'reboth going to be automaticallydeemed approved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? Allthose infavor ofthe motion,raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-175 AND
RESOLUTION 22-176, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF
THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, towaive the
Rules of the Council regarding thismatter.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Both matters are time sensitivefor
the reasons statedduring the discussion of the discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes",with regard to the waiver. Motion carries.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-175 AND RESOLUTION
22-176.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Molina,seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to adopt the
Resolutions 22-175,22-176?
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. During the August 2, 2022, GREAT
Committee meeting the Committee discussed the Mayor's nominations of Arragon
Kekoawiwaole Mowatto the Police Commission for a term expiringon March 21,2027;
and also the nomination of Mr. Nathan Kalani Ignacio,as well,to the Public Works
Commission.
First,for Mr. Mowat, he's the Director of Security, Telecommunications & Guest
Services atthe Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa, and a Lahainaluna Varsityfootball
coach. And he expressed interestin serving on the Police Commission because it's
the Commission he feelswhere his skillsand knowledge are most valuable. And he
RegularMeetingofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 92
also statedhe'sinterestedinbeing partof a process to re-establishthe faithand trust
inthe PoliceChief and PoliceDepartment. I'mconfidentMr. Mowat willbe a fine asset
to the Police Commission.
Now, as itrelatesto Mr. Ignacio,he is a Molokai resident and retiredMaui County
Firefighter.And in,inadditionto hisyears of publicservice as a County firstresponder,
he isalso a LittleLeague and high school baseball coach, and a member of the EOC
Evacuation and Disaster Management Team. I’m confident that Mr. Ignacio,with his
lifeexperiences and experience working forthe County of Maui, he willcertainlybe an
asset to the Public Works Commission.
And so,therefore,Iask forthe Members fullsupport of both ofthese nominees. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion, Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo Chair. Real quick. Strong support of the
motion. Always supportive of getting Molokai voices on there,both born and raised
Molokai. And with Mr. Mowat, it's,we get a double bonus of Molokai perspective as
well as a West Maui perspective. And that Commission has been absent of a West
Maui perspective fortoo long. So, very supportive of gettingthaton, thatperspective
on the West Maui voice onto the Commission. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor ofthe motion for22-175, 22-176
to approve-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ... the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, apologies to interject.But justto notifythe body, these
resolutionsare structuredsimilarlyto Resolution 22-174. So, inorder to effectuatean
appointment, they would need to,the body needs to amend these resolutionsto place
the appropriatenames on Exhibit"B" of each resolution.So, forResolution22-175,
that would be Arragon Kekoawiwaole Mowat and for Resolution 22-176, that'dbe
Nathan Kalani Ignacio,to place those names on the appropriateExhibit"B"s.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And I'llletMr. Molina make thatmotion.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay, mahalo, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO AMEND TO ADD THE NAME OF MR. MOWAT TO
THE EXHIBIT "B" FOR APPROVAL TO THE MAUI COUNTY
POLICE COMMISSION.
AND THEN, FOR MR. IGNACIO, I MOVE TO ADD HIS NAME
TO EXHIBIT "B" AS THE NOMINEE TO THE PUBLIC WORKS
COMMISSION.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
move the two appointees to the Exhibit"B".
Any discussion? Ifnot,thisisan amendment to the main motion. Allthose infavor
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Molina, anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No furtherdiscussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? None. Ail
those infavor,raiseyour hand, say "aye".
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 94
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: The main motion as amended. Okay. Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, recommended for referralto your Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee are:
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-177
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF DALE JULIAN PARSONS JR. TO
THE FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-177 be referred to the Government
Relations.Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-178
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
ROGERENE "KALI" ARCE AS THE
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-178 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 95
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-179
REMOVAL OF KALIKOLEHUA ELIZABETH
KEANUENUEONALANI STOKER FROM THE BOARD OF
WATER SUPPLY FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-179 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-179 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See page nos. 96 through 99 fordiscussionand action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-180
AUTHORIZING AN AMENDMENT TO RESOLUTION 21-158 REGARDING THE
DATES UPON WHICH THE HANA BALL PARK/MULTIPURPOSE FIELD,
OUTDOOR TENNIS AND BASKETBALL COURTS, HELENE HALL, AND THE
HANA COMMUNITY CENTER WILL BE USED FOR THE HANA FESTIVALS OF
ALOHA IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 13.04A.100, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-180 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-180 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING,
action.)
See page nos. 100 through 103 for discussion and
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-181
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO MOBILE
VACATION DWELLINGS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-181 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 96
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any objections,Members, to these referrals?
Member Paltin.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-179
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, with your permission and Member Molina's permission,
Iwould liketo request,ifit'spossible,ifwe take action on 22-179. I,Idid speak with
Ms. Storerlastnightand she did writea resignationletter,she justforgotto press send
and that'swhat triggeredthis.And we were indiscussion intryingtofindanother West
Maui candidate. We're going to approach Kahu Karen Kanekoa. But 1don'tknow that
we need to drag the process out ifother Members are okay with takingactiontoday
and can trustthat Ispoke with her lastnight.
CHAIR LEE: Members. Members, we were going to make allof these referrals,but Member
Paltin is asking that we take action on 22-179, because she spoke with the board
member. And so, any objectionsto taking action on thisparticularresolutionand
referringthe rest?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Objection. Objection.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ihave no objectionto takingactionon thisresolution,
but there are two resolutionsthatI'm requesting actionbe taken today and not referred.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let'stake them one at a time. Are yours before hers? What numbers
are yours?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Paltin has the floor. I'm happy to yieldto
her and take up the next two afterher.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin,would you liketo make a motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE RESOLUTION 22-179.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Molina,to approve the
resolution,the recommendation in Resolution 22-179.
And Ms., Ms. Paltin,what isyour discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That Ispoke with-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ithink Mr. Krueger wants to stop us.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, Iwas, Iwas wondering ifyou were going to pronounce her name as
terrificas he did. That's,that'squite a hard one.
Mr. Krueger, what did,why did you appear on screen.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Apologies, Chair. Ijustwanted to notifythe body thatRule 7.G.
likelyappliesinthissituation.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. So, you'llhave to do, go through thatprocess.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
1 MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 7.G IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
COUNCIL RULES.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 98
CHAIR LEE: Who made thatnoise? Okay, moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez, to waive the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. The waiver of thisRule isnecessary to take action
today and save precious time forMember Molina'sCommittee.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discissionon the waiver? Allthose in favor,raiseyour hand, say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Back to you. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Shall Imake the motion again, on?
1 MOVE THAT WE APPROVE THE RECOMMENDATION IN
RESOLUTION 22-179.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to approve the
recommendation in Resolution 22-179.
Discussion. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. And for you. Chair, 1 had a conversationwith
Kalikolehua Elizabeth Keanuenueonalani Storer last night. And she is, she is
ovenwhelmed with makua kuleana, with many childreninimmersion, two full-timejobs.
And you know, sometimes we justwant to say "yes"when opportunitypresentsitself
and we end up over-extendingourselves. She works full-timeforthe hotelindustry,
full-timefor Puu Kukui, and she's a mother to immersion school kids. And she's so
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5. 2022
Page 99
busy, she wrote a resignationletterand forgotto hitsend. She texted itto me last
night.And we were tryingto brainstorm on findinganother candidate forMr. Mossman.
And hopefullythiswillhelp the situation.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good your pronunciation.
Alright,anymore discission? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Do we have to do anything else on this,Mr. Krueger?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair. Our understanding is the body just adopted that
resolution.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Now, we have another one not to refer.Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-182.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama
to adopt Resolution 22-182.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1see Mr. Krueger.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Krueger? Oh, we have to do the waiver?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 100
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; No, Chair. No. Chair. It'sjust I didn'tcallup this item yet.
Apologies, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. That's right,that'sright.That's true,that'strue. Okay, we'llhave.
Please callthis one up. And what is the other one? Did you want to handle it
separately? You said you had two.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, 186.
CHAIR LEE; You want thatcalledup too,or later? After?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I see Member Sinenci urgently tryingto get your
attention.So, I'llyieldto Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, Mr.. Mr. Sinenci.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-180
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Ihad considerationfor22-180. So, ifyou
want to take itup now .. .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah, ifyou don'tmind, Vice-Chair,so we can take itup inchronological
order, numerical order,yeah.
Okay. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-180, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Second.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member Molina, on the
waiver, Council Rules on, with regard to resolution.Oh, I'm sorry,thiswasn't called up
either. Can you wait forthat?
Mr. Krueger?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No, itwas.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. Icalledresolutions,during thattime, Icalled
Resolutions 22-177 through 22-181.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, those fivewere called.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. No wonder you didn'tappear on the screen. Okay, so could you
make your motion again, Mr.,Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That was the motion to waive the Committee referral and
report-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -in accordance with Rule 7.G.
CHAIR LEE: And then, who was the seconded, seconder? Did somebody second the
motion? Mr. Molina seconded the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, discussion,Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. The 2022 Hana Festivalsof Aloha is
scheduled for October 15 -22, 2022, a littlemore than two months away, but are not
the dates that were listedin Resolution 21-158. Adopting thisresolutiontoday would
ensure that we make that correction in the, in time for the event.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore discission? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand.
This ison the waiver, right?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 102
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-180.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member Molina,to adopt Resolution
22-180.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members. This resolution would allow Lokahi Pacific
the flexibilityinscheduling the eleven-day Hana FestivalsofAloha event each October
rather than holding them to the specificdates referenced in Resolution 21-158.
Allowingforthisflexibilitywillassistthe event coordinatorsinthe schedulingof much
needed services and necessary participants. So, 1 appreciate the Members
considerationof passing thisresolutiontoday. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion,Members?
Member, Vice, Pro Temp Kama and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, Mr. Sinenci, when you looked at the time clock,and you
looked at,you know, how to get everythinginpositionso thatatthetimethatyou think
thatifthingsrollout well,itshould end up perfectly,right,so thateverything'sgoing to
be Okie dokie,yeah? So, when you thought about that,so does what we'redoingtoday
meet with the new schedule? Because you said that the dates inthe reso were wrong.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 103
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you, Pro Temp Kama. And italso extends the
flexibilitythe entiremonth of October forfutureevents down the road.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, it'sthe whole month of October?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Not necessarily. The, yeah, justthe eleven days withinthe
month of October.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. So, itsays 21-31. And then, itsays 18-28. But it'seleven
days inthat section.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Inthose, okay. 1get that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, you had a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, Ijustwant to say Isupportthisas Iknow Hana does
a greatjob interms of puttingyour events together.And Ithinkthiscame up,because
Tina Thompson, you remember Tina Thompson, who used towork inthe offices?She
stilldoes FestivalsofAloha. So, Igot a email from her saying,hey,we have a problem
here and that'show detailedshe is.So, I'mglad you guys are allstillworking together
And thankyou, TinaThompson. Thank you, Daryland NeilHasegawa, and yourwhole
crew. I'm sorry,Iforgotyour main coordinatorthere,but he'sawesome. So, thanks
fordoing this,Mr. Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Anymore discission?Allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Pro Temp Kama?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Mr. Krueger.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 104
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,just want to confirm with the body ifthere are any
objectionsto the referralsfor Resolutions 22-177, 178, and 181?
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto those referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Proceed.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-182
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF NALANI
FUJIHARAAS HAWAIIAN LANGUAGE
COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST IN THE
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-182.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama
to adopt Resolution 22-182.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ms. Fujihara receivedher bachelor’s
degree in Hawaiian Language at the Universityof Hawaii at Manoa. She's currently
employed as a writerwith Ke Panana Aloha Writers'Instituteatthe UniversityofHawaii
at Manoa.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 105
Priorto her currentemployment, Ms. Fujiharawas a tutorwith Kako'o Student Support
at Universityof Hawaii at Maui. Ms. Fujihara'seducation and background in Hawaiian
language, journalism,visualarts,design, technology, and communication willmake
her a greatasset inOCS. This firstof itskind positioninthe County callsforproficiency
in Hawaiian values-based literacyand speaking, and professionalHawaiian language
translation.
In meeting with Ms. Fujihara,Ifound her to be very qualified,pleasant to work with,
and eager to collaboratewith us, as the Councilmembers, our offices,and others to
advance thishistoriceffortto put intopracticethe constitutionalprovisionrecognizing
Hawaii's two officiallanguages.
She isa Maui born and raised. Our opio who went away forschool and has returned
to contributeto our community. It'sso excitingto welcome her home and offerthis
opportunity. At thistime, Iwould love to inviteMs. Fujiharato very brieflyshare some
mana'o to celebrate thismoment. Aloha e Nalani. (Spoke in Hawaiian.)
MS. NALANI FUJIHARA; (Spoke in Hawaiian.) Aloha, my name isRiann Fujihara.I'mfrom
Kahului,Maui. Ijustwanted to give my thanks and aloha forconsideringme forthis
position.I'mso excitedbecause Ireallylookforward to seeing ‘OleloHawai'iand Ike
Hawai'i not only inthe classroom setting,but also inspaces likethiswhere people are
making very important decisions for our community and for Kanaka Hawai'i. So,
mahalo nui and Ilook forward to working with allof you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, justa question on procedure. Idon'tremember gettinga
requestforinterviews.Idon'tknow ifImissed something, cause I,you know, was gone
during June.
Ms. Fujiwara [sic]have you met with, or Fujihara,have you met with other
Councilmembers?
MS. FUJIHARA; Yes. I'vespoken to Councilmember Sugimura, as wellas Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez. And that is it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. So, was that,Chair was thatan opportunitythatthe rest
of us were afforded?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Ithink so. I,I had an email sent to me asking, you know, ifwe wanted to have
a meeting, but Ithinkmy schedule didn'tallowthatforme anyway. But that'sstandard
procedure.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Iknow, ijustIhadn't,Idon't remember seeing it,so Ijust
wanted to make sure thatthat was an opportunity. Imean, you sound wonderful, so,
it's,you know, I just wanted to make sure that we are, you know, going through
procedure and we allhad a chance to do that interview.
But can we, is,can we get any comments from OCS, since she'llbe working under
Traci and the rest of the OCS team?
CHAIR LEE: Trad, are you on the call? Traci?
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES TRACI FUJITA: Yes. I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question? You have any comments?
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: An email did go out to allthe Members. EA's,and
District Offices.
CHAIR LEE: Ithink,Ithink she wanted to know more about, you know--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwanted to-
CHAIR LEE: --toworking with Ms. Fujiharawith and, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Ijustwanted to hear from you because I'massuming you
made the recommendation.
DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes. So, our office,itwas a unanimous decision to
recommend Nalani as this new, brand new Hawaiian Language Communications
Specialist.Itseems likethe positionwas made forher. You know, it'sjust,we were
just so lucky that she applied,you know, when we sent out the recruitmentnotice
because she checked allthe boxes, you know. So, we are very excited. And, you
know, it'sa positionthat'sbrand new, so it'sgoing to be a,you know, kindofdeveloped
and evolving as she's inthat position.So, from, from the feedback thatwe've gotten
from her reference checks isthat she isvery flexible,you know, and isable to adapt.
And Ithink she'll,she's just perfect in almost, in every aspect thatwe could ask for.
You know, she fillsthat,that need for us.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 107
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That'sgreat.Thank you so much forthat,Traci. We really
appreciate it.
And Ms. Fujihara,Ijustwant to apologizeformissingthe opportunityto meet with you.
Sometimes these things come up and we're given a very short window of having an
interview.And you know, we're allso busy rightnow. But, yeah, I,I'm very satisfied
and Ithank you for applying forthe position.Thank you. Chair.
MS. FUJIHARA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, for me, interesting,right. I got a call from the
community even before Iknew thatshe was, you know, was on our agenda. So, that's
how well-respected she is.Members. And Idid have a chance totalkto her. And she's
very enthusiasticand, you know, wanting to make a difference.And Iwelcome her to
joinour team. So, thank you very much. Iappreciateyou a lot.
MS. FUJIHARA: Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good. Any more questions.Members?
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Idon't have a question. Ijusthave a discussion that,you
know. I'mvery pleased thatitworked out so thatmy minor isabletowitnessthishistoric
moment. And Itoldher,you know, ifshe studieshard inschool,thatcould be her one
day.
CHAIR LEE: Terrific.Very good. Okay. Now, we have a-
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Just a quick comment. Iknow we're
allvery excited,but I promised Ms. Fujihara,since thisis a new position,thatwe
wouldn't bombard her with a ton of work rightaway, that itwould be a slow, slower
rollout,so thatwe don'toverwhelm her and, and scare her away. We want to,we want
to hold onto her. Because, you know, as in our interview,we spoke about we are
buildingthe plane as we are flying.Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5. 2022
Page 108
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Allthose in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Okay, thisisto,yeah, very good, to adopt the resolution.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed "nay".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries.Welcome aboard. Thank you.
MS. FUJIHARA: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, we haven't taken a lunch break, but you know, we only have four
more pages. You, you want to trydo this? Or come back after? You want to have
lunch? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Alright.It's,you want to come back at 1:30? One hour. Isone hour
enough? Alright,Members, we'lltake a lunch break and returnat 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwanted to inform you, Ihave a meeting atone, so Imay be
a littlebitlatecoming back.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You know, itmight not be 1:30 justto letyou know.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, ifany of your thingscome up, we'lljustwait. We'llleaveittillthe
end of the calendar.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Idon'tthinkIhave any more things. But Ijustwanted to letyou
know because 1know we have a few more things we'llbe voting on.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 109
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, Chair, can I,can I amend the time maybe 1:45, ifno
objections?
CHAIR LEE: 1:45?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody object to 1:45? Okay, that'sfine.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Mr. Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, without objections,we're going to have a recess, a lunch
recess.
Oh, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, !justwas, did we finishSection L?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: No, we're not finishedwith the resolutionsyet.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. We didn’twant to,we didn'twant to finishthatone and
then starton testimony forthe bills,or no?
CHAIR LEE: No, Ithinkthey, Ithinkthey want to take a break now so they can come back
at 1:45.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Just checking.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, thismeeting isinrecess until1:45.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 110
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:25 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:46
COUNCILMEMBER KING AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, "EXCUSED" )
WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPTP.M.
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting ofAugust 5, 2022, please reconvene.
Okay, Mr. Clerk,shallwe continue on the resolutions?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-183
APPOINTMENT OF CHARLEEN "NAOMI" CROZIER TO THE
COMMISSION ON HEALING SOLUTIONS FOR HOMELESSNESS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-183 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. justto confirmwiththe body ifthere'sany objectionstothat
referral?
CHAIR LEE: Well, any, any objectionsto thatreferral?We're going to go one by one. Any
anybody?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Next.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-184
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO
AGRICULTURAL LAND USE FOR HOUSING
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 111
CHAIR LEE; Any objections,Members, to referringthisto the BFED Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; No objections.
CHAIR LEE; Oops, we have a question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, on you're22-184, correct?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. So, this is regarding agricultureland use for
housing. And Iwanted to ask ifyou could deferthisand place on the Clerk'sdesk and
take itup atthe next Council meeting? The draftordinance was discussed atthe Kula
Community Associationmeeting withthe Kula Ag Park Chair there.
(Councilmember King returnedtothe meeting at 1;48 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; And they wanted sometime to look at itand they may have
some revisionsafterthey meet next,the Ag Working Group isgoingtomeet nextweek
Thursday, so they wanted to take a look at it.And so, ifyou could holdit,deferit,hold
iton the Clerk'sdesk tillnext Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions or objections?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; No objections.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, Ijustwanted to clarify.Itsounded likeyou said B, itwas
going to be referredto BFED.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; PSLU.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Is itPSLU?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Itshould have been.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 112
CHAIR LEE; Yeah. I,apparentlythisisa mistake. On my sheet of paper, itsays forreferral
to your Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, should be PSLU.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Members. And I'llletyou know at
the next Council meeting, because they may or may not have some revisions.Iwanted
to give--
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -Tamara a clean billto look at.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so I'm going to justrepeat. No, Members, any objectionsto tabling
Resolution 22-184 untilthe next Council meeting? Any objections?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can Iask a question. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'mjustwondering why thisisunder resolutionsinsteadof bills?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: As, oh here.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, because Member Sugimura isgoing to explainthat.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Itwas a reso to, once PSLU looked at the bill,itwas going
to get referredto the planning commissions.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause it'sa Chapter 19, yeah. Thank you. Thanks
Members.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 113
CHAIR LEE: So, letthe record show there are no objections,but we have one Member
excused, and that is Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. So, the vote is eight,eight in
favor, one excused.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, now we're on Resolution 185.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-185
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 15
OCEAN SAFETY OFFICERS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-185 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez returnedto the meeting at 1:50 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, maybe we should wait untilthe Vice-Chaircomes back totake thatup.
Why don'twe skip that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She's back. She's back.
CHAIR LEE: She's back? Okay. Alright.
So, Vice-Chair,we are now on Resolution 22-185. Do you want--
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Isthisan action item,or isthisgoing tobe referredtothe Human Concerns
and Parks Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ... The BFED Committee?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 114
CHAIR LEE: Well, Iguess the way my notes are on, are on the page. Itlooks like,yeah,
BFED could've,yeah, be forthe 22-185 and then maybe 22-186 isHCP. Okay, so but,
did you want to take action on this,approving the Cost Items forthe Bargaining Unit
15, or to refer itto Committee?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Refer 22-185 to Committee, to the BFED Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered on 22-185.
Mr. Clerk,can we have, callup the next one?
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-186
AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF APPROXIMATELY 0.930 ACRES
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY NO. (2) 3-3-003:006
AND APPROXIMATELY 0.498 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS
TAX MAP KEY NO. (2)3-3-003:008 SITUATED AT WAILUKU, MAUI,
HAWAII, FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $1,500,000.00
CHAIR LEE: Is this an action item? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may I
request thatwe defer Resolution 22-186 untilBill123 istaken up?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-186 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 128 through 141 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. We need to request testimony on bills.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 115
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony on bills.Apologies.
Chair,fortestimony on bills,the firstperson signed up to testifyisKekai Robinson. To
be followed by Kimberly Thayer.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Robinson?
MS. KEKAI ROBINSON, KE KULA ‘O PI'ILANI [testifying on Bill Nos. 121 (2022) and
123 (2022)1;
Hi. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Hi.
MS. ROBINSON; Mahalo. (Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Warmest greetings,Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Kekai Robinson and Iserve as
the head of Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilaniat Maniania, just above Kepaniwai in ‘laoValley. I'm
testifyingin support of item 22-186, or Bill123, that allowsforthe County to partner
with us insecuringa home forKe Kula ‘oPi'ilaniherein‘lao.
Our organizationis committed to upliftingour people, our aina,our language and
culture.Our visionisto nurturefluency intraditionalHawaiian wisdom and values,and
to cultivateextraordinaryleadersfortoday,articulattecommunity leadersfortomorrow,
who are grounded and have deep-rooted connection to each other,to Maui's
environment, and to the elements that sustain us all.We striveto integrateindigenous
wisdom with modern academics to support the development of strong, healthy,
intelligenthumans to grow kanaka here inthe heartof the valley.
So, every morning, our voices ringthrough the valleysabove Wailuku. You willhear
(Spoke inHawaiian.) Our childrenstarttheirday by asking permissionto learnand to
gain and to grow in thisspace, recognizing the richness of our aina and emanating
mana out from our littlespace inthe valleyto the restof our islandof Maui. Our five
and sixyear olds experience aloha through intimaterelationshipwithainaand kuleana
guides the ways inwhich they move through the world. As theygrow oldertheydeepen
theirsense of community, of service,of self-confidenceand identityas kanaka . . . ,
children of these lands, After grade 5, they leave us as passionate and skilledoiwi
with strongfoundationsknowing that'laowillalways be theirpiko.
. . . Pi'ilaniconnected people and resources, one of our Maui kings,viathe alaloa,
bringingsolidarityand unityto the people of Maui. And as our namesake, we striveto
continue his legacy. The alaloaisa road builtupon earth,ili'ili,pohaku. The physical
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 116
minerals of our ancestors isaina, meaning thatthe past isthe very firmament upon
which we stand. Our challenge isaina-based learningdependent on aina. So, Iwould
emphasize thatwhere learninghappens isas important,isso important to indigenous
wisdom.
I know that’smy time, but I'm here ifyou have questions. Thank you very much
especiallyto thisparticularCouncil,thisspecificCouncil foralways supporting Native
Hawaiian language and culture.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Isee we have a question.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Iwas justgoing to ask ifwe were planningto
have Ms. Robinson as a resource person when we get to that item? She seems to be
involved.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Well,yes. Ithinkshe, well,we have another person that'swiththe Nature
Conservancy. But Ms. Robinson, would you be able to stay when, fora while untilwe
discuss this matter?
MS. ROBINSON: Yes. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Basically,basicallywhat Iwas going toask you, and you can wait
tilllaterifyou want, but Iwas justgoing to ask you what'syour relationshiptothe Hawaii
Nature Center isas faras likedo you guys, are you a tenant,are you, you know, what's
your long-termsituationisthere? So, I can wait tillwe get to the item. Thank you.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Well, actually,we, we are on the item.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithought we were-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithought we were at the beginning of allthe bills?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk,did you, let'ssee. oh thatis123, that'sright.So, it'llbe a few-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, it'sat the end of the bills.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 117
CHAIR LEE; A few minutes beforewe actuallyget tothat. You're right.Any other clarifying
questions for the testifierinthe meantime?
Member Paltin.Clarificationquestions only.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Ijustwanted to clarify,she can have another three minutes
for 121 as well,right?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: And longer than thatifwe have other questions,yeah. This isprobably one of
the main items we were going to discuss thisafternoon.
Mr. Sinenci,did you have your hand up? No?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That was my question. Ms. Robinson wanted to also testify
on 121.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. 121 and 123, Ithink. But in the meantime, does anyone have clarifying
questions for Ms. Robinson? Ifnot, but you're going to stay on the line,right?
Ms. Robinson, right?
MS. ROBINSON: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Yeah. No objections.Members, to having Ms. Robinson as
a resource person?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Okay, so, then Mr. Clerk,you may continue.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, ifMs. Robinson, it'salso her opportunity to testifyon
Bill 121 at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Well-
MS. ROBINSON: Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 118
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. But she's going to be here for,as a, as a resource person. Don't
we have another testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,apologies. Apologies, Chair. So, Ms. Robinson signed
up to testifyon Bill121 and 123. My understanding was the testimony we received
was juston Bill123. So, ifMs. Robinson was also going to testifyon Bill121, now is
her opportunityto do so. And then we can, aftershe's finishedwith her testimony, we
can callon the next testifierwhich willbe Kimberly Thayer.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. The whole pointisthatwe want to close testimony so we can get to the
work, yeah? So, that'swhat we want to do, and not leave the pipelineopen, you know,
forever. So, would you liketo testifyon those billsnow, Ms. Robinson? The 21 [sic]
and 123?
MS. ROBINSON: Thank you. That was my testimony on Bill123. This,Iwould justshortly
say that on Bill121, I am strong support. I am also a DHHL homeowner, and have
experienced trauma that,you know, caused us to miss our payment on our realestate
taxes and then caused us to lose our exemption. So, Iwould stronglysupport ifthe
County would be so kind enough to support the bill,where, you know, forDepartment
of Hawaiian Homeland lessees, we would, you know, have that reliefof not being
penalized and losingour exemptions ifwe miss our payment fora sec. We're allcaught
up now. But thank you forthe time to,to testifyinsupport ofalso Bill121. But yes. I'm
here mainly forBill123. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay. Members, do you have any questions for Ms. Robinson on, on
the other Bill121? No. No questions. Okay, so now we're going to ask for other
testifiers.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. The only other individualwe have signed up to testifyon
billsisKimberly Thayer. Ifthere are any other individualswho would liketotestifyon
bills,please sign up.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Thayer.
MS. KIMBERLY THAYER. KE KULA ‘O PNLANI [testifying on Bill23 (2022)1:
Hi. Aloha. Iguess it'smy turn. So, aloha mai kakou .,.KimberlyThayer. (Spoke in
Hawaiian.)
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 119
So, my name is Kimberly Thayer, and I am here to testifyin strong support of Bill
No. 123,regardingtheacquisitionofthe‘laoValleyproperty forKe Kula ‘o Pi'ilani.So,
I serve as the board treasurer for Ke Kula. We are a 501(c)(3) nonprofit,with a nine-
member board of directors.Iam also a proud and gratefulmother of two haumana of
thisschool. And our ohana has been very intimatelyinvolved inthe school since the
very beginning.
So, almost sixyears ago exactly,we opened our doors with justsix kids in a tent and
one young teacher on the grounds of Po'okela Church. We were the very first
independent tuition-basedHawaiian immersion elementary school inexistence. In our
second year we were, we very excitedlymoved to our dream locationin‘laoValley,
where we have been to thisday.
That year, we also received our firstbatch of funding from Kamehameha Schools, and
they also continue to support us. We received our firstprivatedonation thatgave us a
set of ukulele for our kids. That gave birthto a mele program. We struck up a
relationshipwith Ola Mau Farms that started our Kalo program and our Mahi'ai
program.
In our thirdyear, we tripledour enrollment to 18 students and we starteda Ka Piko
Kaiao which isa program to educate makua, parents and ohana to create a villageof
speakers around our kids. And our capstone projectthatyear was the handcraftingof
two pahu drums thatthe parents did on our own. And itreallygelledus together. We
learned how to harvest hau and weave kaula and carve the wood for the drums. And
itwas an extremely meaningful experience.
In our fourthyear,we received funding from the FirstNations Development Instituteto
create a papa and pohaku ku‘i‘ai,poi board and stone thatwere made by each family.
And to thisday, every new familyof our school,we teach them how to do thaton their
own. So, every familyas a poi board and stone intheirhomes now.
In our fifthyear, we were struck with COVID, but we were able to maintain our
enrollment,despitethe challenges. And we had the flexibilityand fundingsupportfrom
OED to create digitallearningresources thatare stillavailableon our YouTube channel
to thisday,
And thislastyear, we justcompleted our sixth-yearin existence. We graduated our
firstbatch of kindergartners out of fifthgrade. Our son was one of those first
kindergartners,and it'sbeen amazing thatwe made itthisfar.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 120
And sorry,Iknow that'smy time. But Ijustwanted to say we're on the verge of our
seventh year with over 40 students enrolled. We have a staffof nine, and we work
with a whole bunch of culturalpractitionerswho directlypass theirknowledge onto our
students. Ithinkit'sbeen lifechanging foreverybody who's been part of our school
and we would be so gratefulfor the opportunity to secure our home and continue to
steward thiswahi forthe community thatwe are a partof. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Great. Questions. Members? Ihave a question, Ms. Thayer. Can you tellme
how much you receivefrom OED? OED, meaning the County.
MS. THAYER: Yes. So, OED, sorry,before we received about $65,000. And thisyear we
received $50,000, which has, yeah, likeIsaid,led to the creationof digitalresources
to support professionaldevelopment forour kumu.
CHAIR LEE: Iguess they forgetto tellyou thata good portionofthatcame from the County
Council.
MS. THAYER: Yes. Yes. And you were instrumentalinthat,so thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. My districtfunds.
MS. THAYER: Yes. We, it's. . .
CHAIR LEE: But that'sokay. Imean, you know, we’re allinthistogether.
MS. THAYER: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions.Members?
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, I guess I'llask you the question,
Ms. Thayer. And thanks for being here. I'veactuallyvisitedyour school before. And
Idon'tknow ifyou remember when Iwas, when I made thattrekover thereat Tiare
Lawrence's request. But,so, you're,are you currentlypaying renttothe Hawaii Nature
Center?
MS. THAYER: Yes, we are.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And, and so you want to,you would want to continuethat
same model, but with the County having ownership of the property.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 121
MS. THAYER; Yes, we would be open to that.Solidifying,so, we're on a year-to-year lease
atthispointand to have the securityofknowing thatwe have a permanent home would
be-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you'd be lookingforlikea fiveor ten-year lease at that point
ifthe County were able to purchase.
MS. THAYER: Oh, at least.We were hoping formore, ifpossible,because we need to make
upgrades to the school for licensingand accreditation.And to have, you know, long
term control of the space gives us more of an abilityto secure funding to make the
improvements thatwe need to be licensed and accredited.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And isyour, isyour lease likejustforthe space where the
school is,or isitan expanded space beyond justthe facilitythere?
MS. THAYER: It’s,we've, well-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Or isitthe entirespace that'sowned by the Nature Center right
now?
MS. THAYER: So, the entirespace isowned by the Nature Center. And as we've grown,
we've needed to utilizemore and more space. And so, with our growth, our costs have
gone up, which, you know, we are a nonprofit,likeI said, and we're tuitionbased.
Tuition doesn't cover allof our costs. And so, wherever we can make the most of our
limited resources is what we would like to do. So, ifwe can put our money into
improving the space versus paying more and more lease rent,thatwould very much
help us make ends meet and do what we want to do of puttingour money towards our
students, and our ohana, and our kumu, and our community.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thanks forthat explanation. When Iwas
there,Ididn't,Iwasn't,you know, cause I’vebeen. I'vebeen. I'vespent a lotoftime at
the Nature Center before you guys put your school there. And so, Iwasn't sure where
the boundaries were for the Nature Center. But itsounds likeyou've expanded intoall
of that space at thispoint?
MS. THAYER: Not quite everything. So, we, as of our new lease thisyear, I know you're
familiarwith the main buildingthatused to have the museum initwiththe solarium.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
MS. THAYER: So, we're prettymuch utilizingallof that. And then, one partof one of the
back buildings.So, there'sthe two back buildingsand we have partof one ofthem.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But you, itsounds likeyou'd liketo have allofthe buildings
there?
MS. THAYER: Yeah. So, our, our ple-in-the-skydream is to expand beyond elementai7
school,intomiddle school,and one day, high school. And so, as our school grows and
we tryand educate more students, we would need more and more space to do that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And that,thatwould be, and there'senough space there
foryou to expand to your end goal?
MS. THAYER: Not forthe high school. Itwould give us a fullelementary school,at least,and
probably maybe the startof a middle school. But intime,we would probably need to
have another space, which we would liketo keep inthatahupua'a ofWailuku and have,
one day, have, you know, a preschool,elementary, middle and high school allthe way
down the ahupua'a. And so, our program would buildone kind of grade levelto the
next allthe way up, and reallydo the fulleducation of our studentsfrom when they are
very young untilthey are adults.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Well,that'sa great vision.Move that.Thank you.
MS. THAYER: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: IthinkPro Temp Kama had her hand up. You have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Idid,Chair. Ijusthave two. Thank you forbeing here,
Ms. Thayer and forhelpingus to understand what you are alldoing there. So, Ihave
justtwo questions. One, what isthe tuition?And ifyou have multiplechildren,do you
offer scholarships for that? That's one. And then, the second one is are you
NAECY [sic]accredited?
MS. THAYER: Okay, so the firstquestion.We are tuition-based,and the vastmajorityofour
families receive financial aid. So, our tuition is $8,000. We have not made any
increases intuitionover the lastfew years, because a lotofthe familiesat our school,
even with the aid we are able to give,stillhave a hard time affordingthe tuition.And
so, we are always, always have reallyhard decisions at thistime of year to say,you
know, how much can we give to enable familiesto come? And we've had several
familiesover the past few years where even with the assistancewe offer,they are still
not able to affordit.Even though they, like,some people tellus nowadays, like,thisis
theirdream forwhere they want theirkidsto go to school,but some ofthem justcan't
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 123
affordit.And we work with them as much as possibleto findcreativesolutions. But it
is.itisalways a challenge being tuition-based.
And Kekai is,as our head of school, she's the one that isreallykind of on the ground,
working towards our accreditation. So, I would liketo lether speak towards that
process, cause she ismuch more intouch with thatthan Iam.
CHAIR LEE: But could you, could you answer the second question?
MS. THAYER: Oh, sorry. Yeah, we are working with the Hawaii Association of Independent
Schools to, or for licensure and we are entering in the firstyear of our accreditation.
Sorry,the,the organization,NAECY [sic].
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair. Chair. Mahalo. We asked Kahu Robinson to
serve as a resource for us when this item comes up, so that we're not deliberating
during publictestimony. And yet,we have gone over and above clarifyingquestions
forour testifier,Ms. Thayer. So, should, should we ask Ms. Thayer to also serve as a
resource person when thisitem comes up instead of continuingdeliberationsduring
publictestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Idon't,I don’tthinkwe were deliberating.Ithink Member Kama just
wanted to,wanted littlemore information. But would you be able to stay as a resource
person as well?
MS. THAYER: Sure. Yes. Yes, Iwould love to.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, so inthe meantime, are there any otherquestionsforMs. Thayer?
Ifnot,by the way, Pro Temp Kama, did,were your questions answered?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, itwas. Chair. Thank you so very much. And thank you
Ms. Thayer.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Do we have any more testifiers,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up totestifyisBryce Thayer.
To be followed by the individualcallinginfrom the phone number ending with these
lastfour digits,0041.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 124
CHAIR LEE: Could you callthatperson up again,please?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Rightnow, Bryce Thayer, itisyour opportunityto testify.
You’re muted on your end. Icannot unmute you.
MR, BRYCE THAYER. KE KULA ‘0 Pl'ILANI [testifyingon BillNo. 123 (2022):
Okay. Okay. Hello.Aloha kakou. Sorry,you justspoke to my wife who ismuch better
and more eloquent than I. But aloha kakou. My name is Bryce Thayer, and Iam the
currentpresidentofthe board of Ke Kula ‘oPi'ilani.Iam testing,or testifyinginsupport
of Bill123. Icurrentlyhave haumana there at the school.
So, my wife Kimberly and I,we are not Hawaiian. So, when we embarked upon this
journey to create a Hawaiian school seven years ago, I think some people were
confused as to why we would do such a thing. And well,the reason isthatwe were
both exposed in college to study abroad. And so, we had the benefitof seeing the
value of learning through an entirelydifferentlens through another language and
culture. And so we decided that we wanted thisexperience for our childrento learn
reading,writing,and arithmetic,but to layeron another language and cultureto enrich
that experience.
And thanks to the work of giantswho came before us here on Maui, thatopportunity
was availableto us and to our children at a very young age here on Maui. So, this
experience has endeared my familyto Hawaiian culture,and thisaina. My wifeand I,
we were both born and raised here, but untilwe started to scratch the surface of
Hawaiian culturethrough our involvement inour children'sschooling,onlythen did we
reallybegin to realizethat not only isthisa directionthatwould ground our children
and create a springboard forthem to thriveinthisworld,but also made us realizethat
our culture,the Hawaiian culture iscriticalto our survivalas a people and as a land.
Ifwe don't have culture,then what do we have here? You know, we have nice beaches
and waterfalls,and friendlypeople, but you can find those things anywhere. Our
cultureisreallywhat isgoing to keep us relevantand thrivinginthisworld. And so,
thispurchase willhelp Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilanion itspath to do exactlythat,preserve our
culturethrough the education of Maui keiki.
This purchase willalso strengthen the Hawaii Nature Center and theirabilityto provide
program here on Maui to teach our childrenthe importance of aina. That itprovides
forus, but only ifwe care forit.And now more than ever,right?Itblows my mind. As
I talkto young kids,you know, I can see that they've lostthisconnectionto aina.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 125
They're on theircellphones, they'rein the metaverse. You know, we talk about the
brain drain and how that is detrimentalto our progress here on the islands,and
especiallyon the neighbor islands. Well, these are the kids that are prone to leave or
not return. And we willbe forced to continue to import thistalentwhen itwas here all
along. We justletitgo.
So, the purchase willalso strengthen the County by preserving thiscultural,culturally
significantwahi in'Tao.‘laoneeds to be preserved as a place of learning,a place for
the community. And Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilaniis ready to carry thistorch intothe futureand
keep ‘iaoavailableforMaui County forthatpurpose. Ifeellikeitisa win-win-win for
the County, the Nature Center, and Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani.
But Ido feellikethere issome, a littlebitof urgency here. LikeHNC was saying earlier,
Todd Cullison,that,you know, we, we do not have a bindingagreement. So, itisnot
something thatisset instone. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Yeah, Ido have a clarifyingquestion. Thank you for
being here, Mr. Thayer. When you mentioned that,are you stillhere?
MR. THAYER: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, he's on.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you mentioned thatitwould make the Hawaii Nature Center
stronger,too. So, so, your,your visionisthatthe Hawaii Nature Center would stillbe
there,but the County would own the property,not the Nature Center?
MR. THAYER: So, intalkingto the Nature ... to continue the program there in‘laoValley.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You're breaking up.
MR. THAYER: ...thattheirabilityto deliverprogram there,because ofthe weather isa bit
problematic. And they are finding,and sorry,I don't mean to speak for,Todd can
reinforceallofthis,but my understanding isthattheirabilitytodeliverprogram inother
places on the islandisgreater.They get more participation.So, and my understanding
is that one of the things that they're going to do with these funds is to create
scholarships and financialaid,so that more folkscan participateintheirprogram at a
reasonable cost.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 126
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But theirprogram would be somewhere else?
MR. THAYER: That remains to be seen. You know we're talkingabout them continuing to
do some levelof program forsome periodoftime. But again, itis,theirprogram seems
to be gravitatingtowards other places on the island.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. Okay, yeah, Iwas justclarifyingwhat you meant, what
you meant by itwould make them stronger,cause Ithought we would be buying itfrom
them and they would be vacating the space.
MR. THAYER: Yeah, so again,they'rejustretoolinghow they deliverprogram, and itsounds
likethey have a plan to be betterand stronger here on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright.Thank you. Thank you. Chair. You're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Ithought Iwas causing an echo before. So, thank you, Mr. Thayer.
Can we have the next testifier,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon this
item. But ifthere isanyone else who would liketo testify,we'lldo a lastcallnow. If
anyone would liketo testifyon bills,please identifyyourselfnow. Again,lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: This would be the lastitem,category,right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair. There's still,stillbefore the Council isbillssecond
and finalreading.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Right. Which would be differentfrom these bills?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, no one's,any objectionsto closingtestimonyon these bills?Not
includingthe billsforsecond and finalreading?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with billsforreferral.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 127
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 117 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII FOR THE
PROVISION OF HAWAIIAN LANGUAGE AND HAWAIIAN STUDIES
WORKSHOPS FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 117 (2022) be referredto the Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 118 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, PACIFIC ISLANDS WATER
SCIENCE CENTER, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
(COOPERATIVE WATER-RESOURCE MONITORING PROGRAM)
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 118 (2022) be referredtothe Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 122 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII
FOR A STOP VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN FORMULA GRANT
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 122 (2022) be referredto the Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 128
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 119 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
SECTION 3.44.015, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO
CONVEYANCE OF EASEMENTS TO THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that BillNo. 119 (2022) be referredto the Infrastructureand
TransportationCommittee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 121 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.48.455, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 121 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance,and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 123 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
REVOLVING FUND
The recommended action isthat BillNo. 123 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any requeststotake up any ofthese itemsforactionon
the floor?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 129
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration for Bill123.
CHAIR LEE; 23? Any objections,Members, to takingup Bill123?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so ordered.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And at this time, ifthere are no
objections,Iwould liketo also callup Resolution 22-186.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If,ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh, it'salready been calledup, right? We deferred
itearlier.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So. well reopen.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Can you, reopen? Okay, so proceed.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-186
AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION OF APPROXIMATELY 0.930 ACRES
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEY NO. (2) 3-3-003;006
AND APPROXIMATELY 0.498 ACRES IDENTIFIED AS
TAX MAP KEY NO. (2)3-3-003:008 SITUATED AT WAILUKU, MAUI,
HAWAII, FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $1,500,000.00
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. And that’sResolution 22-186, authorizingthe
acquisitionof approximately .93 acres identifiedas tax map key thatwas read earlier,
situated at Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii, for an amount not to exceed $1,500,000.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 130
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-186 AND
BILL 123 (2022), IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE
RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama
to waive the Rules of the Council with regard to Resolution 22-186 and Bill123.
Any more discussion on that? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the waiver,raiseyour hand
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
AYES:
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-186, AND PASS BILL 123
ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to
adopt Resolution 22-186 and pass Bill123.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 131
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, Resolution 22-186 would
authorize the Mayor or his representativeto execute allnecessary documents in
connection with the acquisitionof tax map keys (2) 3-3-003:006 and (2) 3-3-003:008
in Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii for an amount not to exceed $1.5 million.
Bill123 (2022) would amend Appendix A, Part IIof the FiscalYear 2023 Budget by
adding an appropriation from the Economic Development and Cultural Programs
RevolvingFund foracquisitionofpropertyon ‘TaoValley Road for$1.5 million.These
properties are currently owned by the Hawaii Nature Center, Inc.,and leased to
Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani for use as a Hawaiian immersion elementary school.
Upon approval of the acquisition,the County willpropose a long-term lease of the
propertiesto Ke Kula ‘o PHlani. An independent appraisalwas conducted, and itwas
concluded that itwas valued at $1.5 million.
We have the Budget Director Michele Yoshimura, Finance DirectorScott Teruya, as
well as the three testifiers that we invited to serve as resource personnel; Kahu Kekai
Robinson, Ms. Kimberly Thayer, and Mr. Todd Cullison,ifthe Members have further
questions. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you, Chair. I'dliketo speak in support of the
motion on the floor. I think we all realize that when itcomes to immersion schools, as
well as charterschools,these schools don'talways get the fullfunding from the State,
likeother Department of Education schools.
Oftentimes, these alternativeculturalschools have to pay theirown rent,pay theirown
electricitybills.They need to also pay for theirown lunch,as well as transportation.
So, I think thiswilldefinitelyhelp the small schools likeKe Kula ‘o Pi'ilanito thrive.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair, isupport thismotion. The only thing 1was
wondering is,I know, Vice-Chair, you mentioned that the upon acquisitionof the
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 132
property thatthere would be a lease executed. And Iwas justtryingto see ifthatwas
mentioned in the resolution or the bill? I,Ididn'tsee--
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins, do have a question forher?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We do have the Administration on.
So, ifthey would liketo invitesomeone from the Administration to speak to Member
King's question?
CHAIR LEE; Budget Director,or Finance Director,are you on the call?
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Can you, hi. Okay. So, I'm not sure ifit'smentioned inthe lease. I
know it'snot mentioned inthe budget amendment thatthere was going to be a long
term lease. But that isthe intentto at leastgive them a 50-year lease,so thatthey can
secure funding to make improvements at school and to do any type ofexpansion that
they need. So, inorderto,forthem to get otherfinancingresources,we were looking
ata 50-year lease. Rightnow, they'reon year-to-year,Ibelieve,withthe Hawaii Nature
Center.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Do, isthatsomething thatshould be put inthe resolution?And
there's no mention of us doing that. There's no commitment to eitherthe billor the
resolution.Maybe Ms. Thomson-
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'm not,oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -to that.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you. Thank
you. Chair. Thank you, Councilmember King. So, the firststep of course isthe
County's acquisitionofthe property.And then,once thatiscompleted,then we'llcome
back before you, forapproval ofthe lease.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just want to make sure that the intentis in there
somewhere, so that,you know, something differentcan'thappen afterthe acquisition.
But you don'tsee a problem with that?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 133
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: No, Idon't. It's,itisin your record, the intent
of thispurchase.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Alright.Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I have a question, DirectorYoshimura. This, there's a 31-acre
conservation easement portion.What isthat?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, I'm going to defer thatto Guy Hironaka. Ithinkhe's on the call.
He worked on the resolution and the, the metes and bounds, and information for that.
So, ifyou don'tmind, !would defer to him.
CHAIR LEE: Guy, are you on the line? Guy? Iguess not. Okay.
MR. CULLISON: This isTodd Cullison. Ican speak to that,ifit'sappropriate?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. CULLISON: So, the Hawaii Nature Center, again, Todd Cullisonfrom Hawaii Nature
Center. We had that conservation easement for probably almost the entiretime that
we've owned the currentpropertywe're in discussionswith. And thatconservation
easement was effectivelycanceled and given back to Wailuku Water probably right
around the turn of the calendar year, so by January, of 2022. So, itdoes not carry
forward with thispurchase. It'sbeen given back to Wailuku Water, so it'snot partof
thisacquisition,or sale.
CHAIR LEE: So, you're not planning to retainanything?
MR. CULLISON: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: We pay you $1.5 million,and then we execute a long-termlease with the
immersion school, right?
MR. CULLISON: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: And then, so you don't plan to retainany partofthe property,or?
MR. CULLISON: Correct, not as owners.
CHAIR LEE: Any partof the premises?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 134
MR. CULLiSON: Not as owners, and then we'llcontinue to work with the charter school about
leasingback space, or utilizingspace there forsome of our programs.
CHAIR LEE: Because Inoticedthat,because originallythatwas a lodge,so itwas likea little
hotel. So, isthat,one of the buildingsthatwas condemned was that the lodge portion
of the property?
MR. CULLISON: Itwas more what we'd refer to as the dormitories. So, thatone thatyou're
referringto,Chair,isthe more mauka one, closestto the road. And Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani
is rentingspace currentlyfrom the more makai portionof the former dormitories.
CHAIR LEE: No, because Ithought thatwould be income, income producing forthe school,
you know, if,ifitwere renovated. Or is itpossible to renovate some of those old
buildings?
MR. CULLISON: Ithinkit'spossible. Ithinkthat'swhen, you know, a structuralengineer or
somebody else would have to come inand, you know, see if,what the integrityofthe
buildingis? We haven't utilizingitsince the flood of 2018. That'swhen thatone got
flooded.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Because obviously,the income from the tuitionisnot enough. It'sway
insufficient.So, they need additionalincome producing activitiesor,whether it'sa
lodge or,or whatever, leasingto you guys.
MR. CULLISON: Perhaps.
CHAIR LEE: Are you going to be leasinga lotof space?
MR. CULLISON: To be determined. I think one of the reasons that we are interested in
sellingisthatwe justdon'tneed thatfootprint,you know? Our programs,even though
maybe our volume islargerper,you know, per annum, how many kidswe connect
with. We don't need, you know, our program, ifit’sa school program it'sthreeand a
halfhours a day or a summer program that's,you know, a weeklong program. So, we
don'tneed thattype offootprint.We have a littlesmallerneed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Lots more questions.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just wanted to help refocus us
Mr. Guy Hironaka ison iftherewere questionsforhim.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 135
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Hironaka, can you tellus exactlywhat we're buying interms of acres, and
easements, etc?
MR. GUY HIRONAKA: Okay, so basicallywhat we are buying is we are buying the two
portions.The portionthatthe school ison is,islotnumber 6.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. HIRONAKA: And that, and that, and that lotis .93 acres. Lot 8 is a littleunder half an
acre and thathas no improvements on it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so Isee parcel6 and 8. Isthe,are this,it'spartof a littlesubdivision?
MR. HIRONAKA: They are two separate parcels.And itis,inthe middle isthatconservation
easement, which iswater, Wailuku Water land.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Can Iask who initiatedthispurchase?
MR. HIRONAKA: I'm not sure . . . because they, you know, Iguess. Mayor's Officehad a
conversation with them. And they offered us, they offered us the property. We
reviewed itand we submitted a letter of intent after reviewing the appraisal.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA; Chair Lee. I'm not sure ifyou can hear me.
This isScott Teruya.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Mr. Teruya?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE; Okay, Ican give you a littlebackground. Back inJuly,of 2022, I
was presented the inquiryfrom the,inquiryofthe County's interestinpossiblyacquiring
the ‘laoValleycampus thatwas owned by the,orthatisowned by the Hawaii Nature
Center. So, we had fileda letterof intentto purchase. It'sdone very quicklyand it's
before you folks.
Mayor Victorinoissupportiveof the acquisition,provided thatwe could keep thisland
inperpetuityforeducationaland culturalpreservation.So, the intentisforthe County
to purchase. And then,these parcelsthatare acquired willbe providedthrough a long
term lease to Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilani.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ispeak infullsupport. Ihad the opportunity
to speak with Kahu Robinson. And you know, given the creation of the Halau 'Oiwi
Arts,Isee the directconnection and the,you know, how our opio would feed intothe
bigger picture.
Ijusthad a question foreitherMr. Teruya or Ms, Yoshimura on the $1.5 mil and what
portionof the budget thatwould be coming from?
CHAIR LEE: Yoshimura?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Chair,just a littlebitof background on this. Last year, when we
recognized $15 millionof revenue from the TAT, we put a littleover $2 millionintoa
Revolving Fund for Economic Development and CulturalPrograms. And we didn't
designate any expenditureforthat,anticipatinglookingforprojectsthatwe could fund
thatwould fitthe category of economic development or cultural.
When thiscame up. we thought thisis a perfectprojectto put under the Revolving
Fund. And so, we're not asking to increasethe revenues inanyway. WeTe justasking
to put an appropriationunder funds thatalready existina Revolving Fund. Thank you.
Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. So, just my follow-updiscussion to that is,you
know, when thingsseem to alignso welllikethis,Ifeellikeit'smeant to be. And who
am Ito say no? Thank you.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We have to ask the hard questions.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. 1love thisdiscussion because ifKeani wasn't
going to do this,I was going to do this. So. thank you very much formoving this
forward.
Iwilltellyou thatlisteningtoAliceand I,Ican tellyou storiesabout when itwas a hotel,
when itwas a restaurant, when there was a bar there, and then you evolve forward,
my son, who's now 30, we had birthdaypartiesthere. And then,when 1saw what Kim
Thayer was doing, Ithought righton, right? Education. And then, you're right,the
Halau ‘OiwiArts. Imean, everything islikefittingtogether.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 137
And you know, my big thing is Iwould love to see Wailuku be designated as an art
districtand thisallkind of fitsinwith,you know, everything going on with the lower side
of town and this side, and the cultural,historic,and the use of these funds are perfect.
So, Istand infullsupport ofthis.
Iwant to thank allthe people who sent us many, many testimony to support this. It
kind of gave me a historyof the people involved. So, reallyappreciate this. Members
when you're ready, let'svote. This islikea perfect,perfectmoment.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? My lastthought would be, you know, I,of course. I'm insupport
of this.But Ithinkthatthey'retakingon a huge liabilityand expense of,ina sense that
a lotof the structuresare outdated and need probably in major repair. So, they're
going to need a lotmore than the $1.5 million.So, we, we need to help them come up
with a revitalizationplan. So, thatthis,thismoney will,thispropertywillproduce money
to pay forthem to be there,and to grow. Otherwise, they'realways going to be behind
the eight-balltryingto keep up with expenses and so forthbecause that place isold.
Itisreallyold.
Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and then Pro Temp Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'llyieldto Pro Temp Kama at thistime,Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Vice-Chair,forallowingme to
speak before you. Iam speaking intotalsupport of thisproject.And Iwant to say, it
does almost seem likethat'sa lotof stuff.But,you know when you thinkabout where
not justthisgroup, but other groups similarto them have begun, and what they've
overcome, and where they know they want to be. I mean, that'sjustour history.We
are resilientpeople. I mean, look at us we're stillhere. And we're still,you know,
fightingthe good fight.And we're stillhaving hope. And we'restillbelievingthataloha
isthe way to do things.
And Ithinkjustwith the traditionalvalues thatwe are,Iliketo say thatwe're born with,
but I know that it'swithin us. But that that'swhat gives us the, the fortitudeto just
continue to continue on. So, 1have great hopes forthem. But you'reright,we are in
a positionto be able to assistthem so that they can become more sustainableunto
themselves. So, our job isto empower them. So, 1am intotalsupport,and I'mready
to vote. Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Vice-Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ijust wanted to quicklycheck with
Kahu Robinson. We asked a bunch of questions of Ms. Thayer earlieron, and as the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 138
Kahu, I
needed to be added on. Iwanted to give her thatopportunity,since we asked her to
stay on and she's been with us allday. Mahalo. Chair.
wanted to make sure that in those responses ifthere was anything that
MS. ROBINSON: Mahalo. Wow,
CHAIR LEE: Do you want to add anything? Would you liketo add anything?
MS. ROBINSON: Just my mahalo. I'mtryingto keep ittogether,because I'mso happy about
what each of you have said thisafternoon. And you know, I'vebeen tryingto keep it
together forthe lasttwo days. Some folkshave feltthe need to share with me what
they sent into you folks. It'sjust beautifulto have that kind of support. Itis like
Councilmember Kama has shared, you know, that's something that we typically
experience thisfullkind of support and backing.
And itishard. Itishard to do, but we are ready to take itup. We've been willingtofor
over the lastseven years and working harder and harder every year. And we will
continue that.We are definitely,definitelyrealizethatwe've come through many, many
impossibilitiesand impossible situations.But at thismoment, Imean, allwe could do
isput our selfout there and ask. And so, thank you folks,sincerely.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Did you have any more questions,Keani? I
didn'twant to,Ididn'tknow ifyou had any additionalbefore I?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ifyou have questions, Ijust,Ihad one lastcomment
before we vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Yeah, Ihave a question,then Ihave a comment, Well,I'll
make my comment first,because Ihave complete faithinyou folksthatyou willreach
your goal. And Ithinkthere'sa lotof people inthiscommunity who willback you. So,
and I know how old that,that,that facilityis,because I,I had birthday partiesfor my
children there when itwas the Hawaii Nature Center. My company had, had rented
that,those spaces forstrategicplanning a couple of times. And thatwas before the
big flood happened. But itwas old then. So, but I,Ihave complete faiththatyou are
going to findthe support thatyou need inthe community, because what you'redoing
is . . .
My only question was that when thiswas introduced there was an urgency to this
because, and Ithink itwas something about a potentialother,you know, some other
buyer or something? Can you speak to that,the urgency to,to get thispurchase done?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 139
CHAIR LEE: This question isfor Ms. Robinson?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Robinson.
MS. ROBINSON: Sure. We're moving intoyour next school year. We starton Monday. This
has been, Iguess, on our plate.And v^e'vebeen lookingat,you know, reallyfindinga
home here in‘laoforquitea number ofyears. But we're so gratefulthatthe Hawaii
Nature Center isgiving us the opportunityto,to do so through purchase of this,this
land. Imean, rightfrom the start,they believed in us, allowed us space. And as the
years have gone on, we, we have a need forincreased space. Our program isgrowing.
We, we are growing slow, steady, but we are growing. We'd liketo grow ineven more
ways, more outreach to community, more ways thatwe can serve our Maui community
of learners.
The urgency at thispointisthat,you know, likeeveryone, we're experiencing,you
know, risingincost. Allkinds of costs,our lease cost,every costisrising.Additionally,
the fearwas thatifitwas made public,thatitwould get kindof scooped out from under
us. Like,Idon'tknow how else to explainor express that,but,you know, it'ssomething
that we realizethatmaybe we were not quitein a position,Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilanito do a
million-dollarpurchase. But, you know, we wanted to be sure thatwe were, we would
ask and do everythingwe could do to ask around ifwe could obtainthisaina.
And then, finally,we're at a point in our growth where we've been licensedby the
Hawaii Association of Independent Schools. And now, we are moving to being
accredited. And so moving inthese, you know, these western academic circles,we
would have a betterchance, a more clearerpathway ifwe had controlover aina and
space to, to solidifyand make safe, and apply and qualifyfor those kinds of
designations. So, itwould definitelyease our way intobecoming accreditedas we, as
we move in that direction.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great.That was a greatexplanation.And Ido understand
the fearof having thispropertyscooped out from under you, cause that'shappened to
us recently.So, I'minfullsupport.Chair,and ready to vote afterour Vice-Chairgives
her final comments.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I think I saw Member Johnson with his hand up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 140
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'msorry. Imissed you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. You know, Ialso riseinfullsupport. And
I reallywant to kind of take a step back and look at the process that has happened
today. We had our inbox flooded with emails. People were, from the community came
out and said, this is what we wanted. The Administration is on board, all the
Councilmembers I'm hearing on board. Everybody's on board. And it'sso great to
have, like,a school be the center,the school being likethe beacon of lightthatbrings
everybody together.
So, I'mso happy to be voting,you know, insupport of this,because that'swhat, that’s
reallylikewhat itshould be. And that’sexactlylikewe should take thisand continue
moving forward in that way that we alltend to work together and do things for our
community and our kids. So, I don't want to drag out that everybody else has said
everythingthatwas, needed to be said. But Iriseinfullsupport. Mahalo. Thank you.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Imight as welljoininthe discussion. This isgreat to listento.
And, you know, Isupport anything that perpetuates the host culturethrough our youth.
And you know, mahalo to Ms. Robinson and the Thayer's forthisundertaking,cause
you know it’squite an achievement. And you know, startsmall and then of course
taking up, dealing with the buildingand the futureimprovements itmay need. But I
always say there'sbeauty in something old,you know. So, there's,there's,Iguess,
maybe mana permeates through thatbuilding,too.you know. It'sgoing to,you know,
be a beacon for,you know, perpetuatingthe culturethrough the kids. So, justterrific
job,everyone. So, Istand infullsupport. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else? Everybody had a chance to say something?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: (Spoke in Hawaiian.) Let'svote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody ready to vote? Okay. Allthose infavorof the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 141
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";it'sunanimous. Motion carries.Okay, thattakes care
of the billand the resolution.
Mr. Clerk,anything else we have to do on thisitem?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Not on thisitem. Chair. But we just want to confirm with the
body ifthere are any other objectionsto the referralsas read by the Clerk?
CHAIR LEE; Any other,I'msorry,Ididn'thear thatlastpart.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, are there any objectionsto the other referralsas read by
the Clerk?
CHAIR LEE; Oh, the other,other referrals.Any objectionsto the other referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.So, ordered.
Now, are we at billssecond and finalreading?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony-
CHAIR LEE: Testimony. Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with testimony on billsforsecond and finalreading.
Chair,at thistime there are no individualssigned up to testifyon any billsforsecond
and finalreading. But we willdo a lastcall.Ifthere isanyone who would liketo testify
on any of these items,please identifyyourselfnow. I repeat,lastcall.Chair,no one
has indicatedthatthey would liketo testify.
CHAIR LEE: Any Members have objectionsto closingpublictestimony and accepting written
testimonyforbillsforsecond and finalreading? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 142
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 93 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 3.48.450 AND 3.48.466
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HOMEOWNER EXEMPTIONS
CHAIR LEE; Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. May Irequestthe Clerk also cal!up
Bill110, CD1 (2022),Bill112, 113, 114, 115, and 116?
CHAIR LEE; All of them?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Allofem. Give em.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE; Allofthem. Okay. Alright.Very good.
Mr. Clerk,did you hear?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 110. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HOMES OF UNMARRIED
SURVIVING SPOUSES OF VETERANS AND SEVERELY DISABLED VETERANS
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 143
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 112 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ESTABLISH THE PAY PLAN FOR A PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
AND A HAWAIIAN LANGUAGE COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST IN THE
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 113 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED OR DERELICT
VEHICLES REVOLVING FUND, EMERGENCY FUND
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 114 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 115 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 144
ORDINANCE NO.		
BILL NO. 116 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1, FD2 (2022), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS)
CHAIR LEE; Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO PASS BILL 93; BILL 110, CD1; BILL 112; BILL 113;
114; 115; AND 116 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Wait, Isaw your hand up. Member Sugimura. Was thatto second the
motion? No? No, because then I'llhave to, huh? Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I wanted to ask if110 could be separated out?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait. Let'sdo thisfirst.Seconded by vice,by Pro Temp Kama, to pass
allof those billson second and finalreading.
Now, are there,isthere any objectionto taking which one out? Which one out?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 110, CD1, the Veterans bill.Ihave an amendment forthat
Amendment Summary Form.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionto separating110?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 145
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Can we not make the amendment in
the motion?
CHAIR LEE: Idon'tknow. Isitgoing to be complicated, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Idon't think itis,but Idon't know ifthe Members willthink.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, go ahead. You can make your amendment to 110 then.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, justto letyou know when thisbillcame out
through Chair Lee's office,communication was sought and asked forby the Veterans
organizations. Captain Michael A. Lilly,U.S. Navy, retired.He’s also Governor's
Advisory Board on Veterans Affairs.He isalso a former Hawaii AttorneyGeneral with
the State of Hawaii. And he now resides here and does veteran things, as well as
Department of Defense Officeof Veterans Services. Ron Han, Jr..Directorof State
Office of Veterans’ Services, spoke to this,as well as our localLloyd Sodetani who is
very activewiththe Veterans organization.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but can you make the motion on the amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh, sorry. Oh. sorry,sorry,sorry.
CHAIR LEE: And by the way, Ididn'tinitiatethisbill.Ithinkitwas Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, it'sMr. Molina's bill.Oh, sorry. Ididn'tmean to say
that you initiatedthisbill.
CHAIR LEE: Well, ifyou make the motion and then we can starttalkingabout it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. At thistime,ifthere isno objections,Iwould liketo
proceed with a proposed amendment. And, and ailof you should get the ASF. I
respectfullyask forthe Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Which is?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL TO ALLOW FOR PASSAGE OF THIS BILL TODAY.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we didn'tget the ASF yet.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 146
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Itcame inmy box.
CHAIR LEE; Itcame inyour box?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Let me, letme look.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Ijustgot it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May Ihelp Member Sugimura?
THE MOTION IS TO AMEND BILL 110, CD1, TO DELETE THE
THREE INSTANCES OF "50 PERCENT OF THE MINIMUM
REAL PROPERTY TAX" AND DELETE THE BRACKETS
AROUND THE THREE INSTANCES OF "$150".
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Right. Where did my paper go? Correct.Correct,correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Correct. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Moved by Member Sugimura. That was her motion.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: And I seconded it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Did, wait,did everybody hear that motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 147
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: It'sin the ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Ihave my copy now. But does everybody, did everybody get a copy of
Member Sugimura's ASF? And they also heard, and you also heard what Vice-Chair
said?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Thanks. Thanks. Keani.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so the motion ison the flooras justmentioned. And so, who's going to
second that motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Idid. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: She did.
CHAIR LEE: No, you didn't,because itwas just read. Okay, so itmoved by Member
Sugimura, but spoken by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and seconded by Pro Temp
Kama. And everybody heard thatmotion, right? Ican repeat it,but it'skind of long.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so now the discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: !guess Istarteddiscussing it.So, when thisbillby,you're
right,by Member Molina came up, itwent to the attentionof those people that I
mentioned. And they,the net effectof what we did and reallyisprobablyunintended
consequences by puttingthat50 percent in,versus takingoutthe 150 and, $150. And
so what happened was the totaldisabled,which is100 percent,versus the 70 percent,
the totaldisabled, then theirtaxes increased. Because minimum tax is$350, divided
by two, and they would end up actuallypaying more in the next fiscalyear forreal
propertytaxes by the motion thatwe did on the floor.
So therefore, I know itwas done in good intentions,but infightingforthe veterans of
fairness,what probably Lloyd Sodetani said, we want what's fairand best for all
veterans. And I think the motion that we did, we ended up increasing those with
100 percent disability,but yet,making a benefitforthose 70, up to thatpoint,right?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 148
And then,the otherthingthatIlearned isthat,Ididn'teven know thisbecause Ihad a
brotherwho was 100 percent disabled. Lloyd said thata person who has a percentage
as a disabilityit'snot fixedfor life.Itcould get, itcould change. Itcould get better,
right? So, you know, that'sthe other thing he said, is he wasn't sure what we were
tryingto do, but we, the net effect is that we ended up impacting the 100 percent
disabled because of that 50 percent.
So, my motion isto bringitback tothe $150, which is,was inthe billfrom the beginning,
so that the totaldisabled would not get theirtaxes increased by the motion that we
made on the floorthe day thatthispassed on firstreading. So, that'smy long version
of what this motion would do. But anybody have questions? I'm here to answer
questions.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. Do you have any comments to make, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ijust,yeah, Iguess, ifitwas an unintended consequence. So,
basically,as I'munderstand what the proposal isnow, everybody gets$150, right,from
the 100 percent onto the 70 percent? And what we had done before,the net effectof
thatcaused the people who are 100 percent to pay now a higherminimum tax? Am I,
isthatmy understanding. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Correct. Yeah, that's what happened. So, yeah, itcaught
the attentionof these and the Veteran Services saying Ithinkwe did this,you know,
unintended consequence. But itreallyraisedthe taxes forthose thatare 100 percent
disabled. It'snot a small, it'snot a large amount, but it'ssignificantenough that,you
know, they thought thatitwouldn'tbe fairforthem at the 100 percent levelto now pay
a penaltybecause we're tryingto help something else. So, that'skindofthe summary
of it.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, we're deletingthe three instances of "50 percent of the minimum real
property tax"?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. And substitutingback-
CHAIR LEE: And leave the brackets around the three instances.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. And substituting-
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 149
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Questions? More questions? Comments?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, I have one comment and one
question. The firstisthe comment about the 150. So, by tetheringitto the minimum
tax, likethe, when we discussed itat that time, itwasn't necessarily unintended. So,
when minimum tax is,so minimum tax isn'tfixed. Itchanges during budget session.
We set the minimum tax. And so, ifminimum tax goes down, then the 50 percent
would also be reduced.
On the other side, ifminimum tax goes up, then the 50 percent would be higher. So,
if,because we're settingthisat $150, and so that'sgoing to be fixed,itdoesn'tchange
during budget session unless we introducea billto change it.Ifminimum tax were to
drop to,say, to $200, so, ifminimum tax was set at $200 and itwas 50 percent,then
for these that would, for the veterans that would qualify,itwould be $100, instead of
$150.
And so, ifwe want to set itat a fixed rate of $150, I'm supportiveof that. It.itwasn't,
you know, a deal-breakerinany way. Ijustwanted to make sure thatwhen there'sa
reduction in the minimum tax that the veterans that qualifywould also receive that
reduction. But at the same time, ifit's,ifit'sincreased, ifthe minimum tax isincreased,
then the veterans thatwould qualifywould then pay more than $150. So that's,that's,
that. So, Ican be supportive ofthatamendment, ifthat'sa policydecisionforthisbody.
The second, so the second part,so the question with striking50 percent of the,oh, I
see. Okay, okay. Okay. Nevermind. Ireread itagain. And it's,Iunderstand. Okay.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions.Members? You ready to vote on the amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Are you okay, Mr. Molina? Yeah? Okay. That was my
big concern.
CHAIR LEE: Allthose infavor of the amendment, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 150
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Members. Thank you, Mr. Molina,
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Back to the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Keani.
CHAIR LEE: Back to the main motion, which was to pass allof these billson second and
finalreading,includingthisone, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aye.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aye. Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, no.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
OH OKAY, I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL TO ENABLE US TO TAKE ACTION ON. ON THE
LEGISLATION AFTER AMENDING IT.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina,
to waive the Rules of the Council in order for us to be able to take action. Can you
explainthat,Vice-Chair,forthe public?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Sure. Mahalo, Chair. So, Rule 19.C of the Rules of
the Council requires no amendments on the finalreading. And we made an
amendment, and so thiswould allow us to take thisaction on finalpassage, where we
have amended thislegislation.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, who did your notes.Member Sugimura?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 151
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, no, her notes has it.I read it,I read itfrom her
notes.
CHAIR LEE: You read itfrom her notes? Okay. Cause Idon't see iton mine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, it'sinthe second partofthe motion. Ifthe motion
is successful, move to waive Rule 19.C of the Rules of the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Isee. Okay. The second partof the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry, Ijustmisplaced allthe papers and my papers. So
thank you, Keani.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so we justneed to vote on thatthen, alright?To waive the Rules. All
those infavor,raiseyour hand, and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carrieson the waiver.
Now, the main motion as amended. Any discussion on that? Ifnot,allthose infavor
say "aye",and raiseyour hand. Member Paltin? Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Alright,Ithinkthat'sthe end. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 152
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Very good. Very good, Members. It'sjust slightlyafter3:00, 3:07. Do
we have any announcements? Anybody? Okay.
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No more styrofoam boogies forsale next week. Less rubbish
inour beach rubbish cans and shorelines,yay.
CHAIR LEE: When was the deadline forthe styrofoam ice chests? When was the deadline
for that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I'm not sure on that one. You'd have to ask Member King.
CHAIR LEE: know, you said,you, that'swhy Iwas lookingat her.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Same as the boogie boards. We passed itat the same time as
the boogie boards.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we did?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, itwould be Monday.
CHAIR LEE: Monday? Okay. So, Ihave to get ridof mine on Monday. My styrofoam cooler.
Ihave to get ridof on Monday.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, you can have itat your house, justdon'tbringitdown to the
beach.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, that'snot going to happen. I,it'sformy dog's barrier.My dog's barrier.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I thought you said you filleditwith bricks and you were
using itas a barrier.You can do that,as long as you-
CHAIR LEE: I am. I am. I am. But I didn't,I didn't want the styrofoam policecoming and
seeing thatinmy, by my yard. Okay. Anything else? Anything else coming up thatwe
should be aware of?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 153
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, tomorrow is Pulehu Posse cleanup, which isthe road
rightby the Central Maui Landfill. So, that willbe from 7:30 to 11:00. And then,
tomorrow evening, we're collecting--
CHAIR LEE: And, and by the way, you'rerepresentingour entireCouncil. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right,right.Right.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: There's, and there's a lotof rubbish people throw, amazing
besides cars.
And then, in the evening from 6:00 to 9:00 at Peggy Sue's in Kihei,there'sa back to
school supply collectionto help with Maui, the Maui Classic Cruisers, that'sthe
American, you know, Classic Cars Club. As well as Brayden Kitagawa, which is a
community projectforhim, and so we're doing back to school suppliesto help students
in need. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Good. Any other events?
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Just wanted to alertthe
Members thatI'mworking on a resolutionto,that Ihope to have done inthe next five
days to recognize my wife for being married to me for 31 years on August 10. So, I
justcome up with allof the whereas's and be itresolve's,so itmight take a few years,
or a few days.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, she, you being a veteran, she deserves the Congressional Medal of
Honor.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: For sure.,.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, no, the Purple Heart.
CHAIR LEE: Purple Heart. Oh, boy.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Purple Heart.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright,everybody, and don'tforget,August 27. So, you have thatmuch
time, Members Johnson, Sinenci,and Molina, to practice. Okay?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
August 5, 2022
Page 154
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The three amigos.
CHAIR LEE; What was that? Okay, so we've come to the end of the calendar. And we are
done with our business fortoday. So, we, Ihope you allhave a wonderful, wonderful
weekend. Stay safe and be happy. This ismeeting isadjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regularmeeting ofAugust 5, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 3:11 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
22805/lks;jm
HALAU, NA HANONA KOLIKE ‘O PIMLANI
KUMU KAPONO AI MOLITAU
3OC
O "n
c *nAugust 5, 2022 m
ot
“< mMaui County Council
LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/
SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND
Oo T1
m
ajX
xm
m
a
O
Welina ke aloha e ko Mauinui,
Eia no au ‘o Kapono'ai Molitau ke kumu o ka halau Na Hanona Kulike ‘O Pi'ilani.‘O
ka ‘olelo makuahine ku‘u ‘olelo o ka ‘aina o Hawai'i. He waiwai no ia no na po‘e apau
ma kahi kihi a kahi kihi a he mea nui no ke a‘o ‘ana i ka na'auao o ka ‘ike o ko kakou
honua.
Aloha, my name isKapono'ai Molitauand Iam Kumu Hula of Halau Na Hanona Kulike
‘O Pi'ilani.My mother tongue ismy language of Hawai'i.The richnessof this
language from border to border isimportant indeed to alland the vast
enlightenment of our ancestralwisdom isfound withinthe lands we learnfrom.
As an educator in both public and privateschools inHawai'iforover 20 years Ihave
seen the amazing growth of our students thathave ‘ainabased educations and have
been grounded inancestralwisdoms, Hawaiian culturalvalues,and the use of their
mother tongue intheirown homeland. As a Kumu Hula forthe past 29 years 1have
witnessed the growth of many of my students that have gone on to furthertheir
educations to come back and serve our communities of 21 century learners in both
Public and Private Schools here on Maui.
Today, this BillNo. 123 has the opportunity to continue to help provide an amazing
‘aina based educational School continue to educate the future learners and leaders
of Mauinui. 1 have been involved with Ke Kula O Pi'ilanifrom itsinception and have
seen firsthandthe amazing determination,will,and aloha thatthisschool,staff,and
leadership has shown to itshaumana and its‘ohana thatitserves. Istrongly
encourage and support thisbillfor Ke Kula O Pi'ilaniand theirstrong stewardship
presence in ‘laoValley.
CONTACT
1980 MAIN STREET UNIT 2, WAILUKU, MAUI. HAWAI'I 96793, NAHANQNA@GMAil.COM
& }
●c●X
‘- p Inatimeofchangeandaneverpresenceinfluxof overwhelming uncertaintiesin
rn ^ our world, itisamazing to see healthy stewardship of ‘ainawhich we know as aloha
r’
\
I
Vru
‘aina and malama ‘aina and the ever present sounds of our Keikithrivingina space
_ .^thatallowsthem tosee theworldand learnthroughthe lensof theirkupuna.
=3.
O Mahalo palena ‘oleia‘oukou pakahi apau no ka paepae mau ika pono no na keikia
me ka ‘aina.
Aloha ‘aina ‘oia ‘i‘o,
Kapono‘aikaulikeikeao Molitau
Kahuna Nui o Pu'ukohola Heiau
Kumu Hula, Na Hanona Kulike ‘O Pi'ilani
Owner, Native Intelligence
Ke Kula 'O Pi'ilanIRECEIVED
Independent HawaiianImmersion bicmentarySchool
‘^O. Box 1934, Wailuku, Mau:, Hawai'i 96793
O^ice.(808)214-5006 |admin@kekulaopiilanicom
Visitour website atwww.kekulaopnlani.comOFFICE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
KE KULA ‘O PI'lLANI
rx
Aloha mai kakou,
I’m writingtoday to ask you topleaseconsiderprovidingwrittentestimony in strongsupport of
Ke Kula ‘o Pi‘ilanito the Maui County Council. They willbe meeting thisFriday to authorize
the purchase and acquisitionof the fomicr Tao Lodge at Maniania, mauka of Kepaniwai Park,
from itscurrentowners on behalfof the community, specificallyto provide a home forKe Kula
‘o Pi'ilani.Now thatthe saleispublic,thereisan urgency to preserve our presence on this
campus as we move intothisnext schoolyear.
Ke Kula 'o PiTlani is a non-profit,independent Hawaiian cultureand language immersion
elementary school,
manifestationsof aloha,kindness,compassion and charity,kuleana,responsibility,authorityand
privilegetempered by care and concern—and ‘imi ‘ike {a life-longcommitment to seeking
awareness,understanding,knowledge,and wisdom).This purchaseand agreement between the
County of Maui and Ke Kula ‘o Pi‘ilaniwillallow us the opportunitytobe the stewardsof this
sacredplace,to uplifta continuednativeHawaiian presencein thevalley,to authenticallyshare
theessenceof‘ikekupuna,traditionalwisdom, and torootthesevaluesina permanenthome and
‘ainabase forthe benefitof our community.
We encourage our community of learnersto become the living
‘BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDINGThe proposal is called,
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/
SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND”. Through thisbill,the Budget Directorof the
Mayor’s Office has asked the Maui County Council to authorizeup to $1,500,000.00for
acquisitionof the land,buildings,and structuresassociatedwith TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006and
TMK No. (2)3-3-003-008locatedat875 ‘TaoValleyRoad, Wailuku, Maui, Hawai‘i from the
Hawai‘i Nature Center on behalf of Ke Kula ‘o PiTlani.
Below arc some prompts to consideras you compose your writtentestimony:
● Address The Maui County Council - Express your alohato theMaui County Council.
● Introduction - Consider providing informationabout yourself,your family,where you arc
from, your connection to Maui, your connection to Hawaiian culture,language,and
traditions,and most especiallyyour connectionand relationshiptoKe Kula ‘oPiTlani.
Hi: WAIWAl M!| KA LOKAHl, ME WAIVVAl NUl KE AEOHA
ke au ihcild.Aia ka lupaliipamai o ke keikia mahi
me ka hiala 'aia lih ai ho'/ 'o ia i mea nana e alaka 'iike kaiauluma ke ala epa'a mau aika ikea me nu loinao ko Hawai'i.
‘0 ka mi 'llo Ke Kula o Pi'ilanie kuiia aku nei, 'oiake kuianapa 'ao ka na'auao o keiaau ino haumuna apau me ka mOiamapu ana ika na'auao
pono 'iakona wahi e ho 'ona'aiiaoiaai.Peia e mau ai kona 'imina 'auao ana
I p- m
● ClearlyStateYour Position- Be conciseand clearon yourpositionofsupport.Your written
testimonydocs not need tobe extensive,a few sentencesto a few paragraphswilldo.Speak
from your heartand be guided by your na‘au.Let them know why you supportKc Kula ‘o
Piilaniand why you supportour continuedpresencein *IaoValley.
Testimony should be e-mailedto the Officeof the County Clerkatcountv.clcrk@,mauicQuntv.us
or faxed to l-(808)-270-7171.Since our item was expeditiouslyadded totheagenda,we*rc also
askingyou to cc each of thecouncilmcmbcrs.
♦ Cut-and-pastethissectionintoyour e-mailaddressTO line:
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
♦ Cut-and-pastethissectionintoyour e-mailaddressCC line:
alice.lce@mauicounty.us,keani.rawlins@mauicounly.us,tamara.paltin@mauicounty.us,
shane.sinenci@mauicounty.us,yukilci.sugimura@mauicounty.us,
kclly.king@mauicounty.us,tasha.kama@mauicounty.us,mike.molina@mauicounty.us,
gabe.johnson@mauicounty.us
♦ Cut-and-pastethissectionintoyour e-mailSUBJECT line:
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE
REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR
2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING
FUND - KE KULA ^O PITLANI, TAO, MAUI, HAWAIT
Nui no ku‘u aloha ia ‘oukou pakahi apau. So much appreciationto our keiki,‘ohana,the Flui
Ho‘okahua ‘o PiTlani School Board of Directors,the Hui Ka‘a‘aina ‘o PiTlani,and our many
community partnersover theyears.I am so gratefulforyour time,prompt support,and k5kua.
‘0 wau iho no,
Kahu Kekai Robinson, Po‘okula
Head of School, Kc Kula ‘o PiTlani
Ke Kuia 'O Pi'ilani,Independent Hawaiian Immersion ElementarySchool,'iao,Maul,Hawai'i■' ■ Box 1 t**.«
*:: Our '
y"' laoValf«>vRoad.Wailti'u E*’;'
● ....'V,jlaOD"‘d'‘ ”>● . k .0 ■ aoi .1 tom ;
KE KULA‘0 PI'ILANI
Count^Clerk RSCUVCD
mi AUG AH l|!03
Maria'DalenaT.Akau <maui06ohana@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4, 2022 10:47 AM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane fv|r^irpr|0^u|^^SY^i^ura;Kelly
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson COUNTY CLERK
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDInSJce
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART li,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received thismessage don't often get email from maui06ohana@gmail.com. Learn why thisis
important <https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Mai Kakou Maui County Council,
We are Ivan & Maria'Dalena Akau of Kahului, Maui. We are of Hawaiian ancestry and everyday isa learningday of our
culture,language and traditions.We have 3 grandchildrenthat have and willattend thisschool year 2022-2023 at Ke
Kula '0 Pi'ilania non-profitHawaiian cultureand language immersion elementary school.
We are inawe of how well our grandchildren have learned theircultureHawaiian language so quickly ina matter of
months and come home and teaches us the adults on how to speak our language that was not so easilyassessableto us
growing up. Itisa beautifulthing to see the students learn both indoors curriculum inOlelo Hawaii, language ,math,
color,science, art etc... and outdoors one on one with the aina the land,learninghow to plantand harvestsustainable
food to carryintotheir/ourfutureof sustainabilityand more...
The students also learnAloha which iskindness,compassion etc..Kuleana which isresponsibility,care and concern ,'imi
'ikecommitment to lifelongseekingawareness, understanding,knowledge and wisdom.
We as grandparents! open to others too) are alsoinvitedto participateinculturalwork shops and learningof our
Hawaiian language too. We are very honored to be a part of Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniGhana.
We are firm supporters of Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniand the education they provideto our studentsand families.The property
that iscurrentlyowned by the Hawaii Nature Center would be an awesome propertyto be owned by Ke Kula'0 Pi'ilani,
they would be now and intothe future committed stewards of both the area and land,inthe sense of the historythe
whole area has and a placethatfamiliesare welcomed to learna lifetime of commitment to the Hawaiian culture.As
well as having a place to provide or expand on to more grade levelsinthe future.
We appreciate thisopportunity to speak on behalfof Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniand we thank you Maui County Council foryour
support and aloha.
Sincerely,
Ivan and Maria'Dalena Akau
1
Count^Clehc
Jamie Ka'iulaniAthearn <jamiekathearn@gmail.com>
Thursday, August 4,2022 12:42 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfromjamiekathearn@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha e Members ofthe Maui County Council,
Mahalo forallyour hard work servingMaui County. Iam writingon behalf of Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani,infullsupport of
theireffortsto remain at theircurrentcampus in‘TaoValleytocontinuetheirstewardshipofthatsacredspace. 1
urgentlyencourage you to support the billthatwould provide thisschool with an irreplaceablepermanent
campus.
My name isJamie Ka’iulaniAthearn. Iwas born and raised in upcountry Maui and now liveinWaiehu. My
mauna ismauna Kahalawai, my kahawai isWailuku river,and my kahakai isOlowalu. Ihave spent most of my
adultlifereclaiming,relearningand reconnectingto the Hawaiian culture,language and allthatwas lostwithin
my own familythrough years of limitedaccess. Iwish Icould have had betteraccess to Hawaiian cultureand
language as a childand would have my daughter enrolledat Ke Kula ‘oPi'ilanihad she been the rightage for
theirprogram.
I am a member of Halau o Hanona Kulike o Pi'ilani,and have come to know several families,students, and
teachers who have been committed members of Ke Kula o Pi'ilani.Ihave experienced the valuable work of
thisschool and am enthusiasticand hopeful fortheirlongevityand growth inthe years to come. Iam certain
thattheireffortsto buildup our keikiwillhave a long lastingand positiveimpact in Maui County and ‘TaoValley
specifically.Supporting theireffortsto secure the 'TaoLodge atManianiawould notonlyallowtheircontinued
effortsbut also furtherprovide forthe foundation needed to sustainthe futureof Maui.
At electiontime, itisimperativethatwe see our politicalleaders take action in support of alleffortsof Native
Hawaiian communities so thatthey can rebuildtheirrelationshipto theirculturethrough,and inpartby,
educating our keiki.Support ofthisbilland Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniissuch needed action.
Mahalo foryour considerationand Iam optimisticto read the good news of your approval inthe coming
weeks.
Me ke aloha no,
&Jamie Ka'iulani Athearn OO
0“ri
“Im
73
rn
oI
X: t i f-<
oo 3-n
m
a\-n
O
1
Count^OeH< ncG^iVhu	
AliE-ii« 8://
AliceL Lee;KeaniN.Rawlins;TamaraA.Paitin;Shai;^jT^SLR.Mci;YukileiSugimura;KellyKing;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;Gabe THE
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILLNO. 123,A BILLFOR KrTOtfeRK
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
Rachael Au Hoon <rachaelrayart@att.net>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 7:25 PM
County ClerkTo:
Cc:
Subject: NCE
I You don'toftenget emailfrom rachaelrayart@att.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council members,
Mahalo a nui! Thank you so much forallof your hard work helpingour community! Iam writingthistestimony in hopes
that you willsupport the continuityof Hawaiian culturalsurvivalin a time of great change.
I was born on Molokai and raised on Maui. At Baldwin High School in 1993 1was inone of the firstHawaiian Language
101 classesto finallybe offered again inthe publicschool system. Ivolunteered then at Punana Leo 0 Maui inWailuku
and that iswhen Iknew rightaway thatthere was no greaterfeelingof such a deep connection to thisplacethan being
a part of our Hawaiian Renaissance through the language revitalizationinthe educational system.
Igraduated with honors from UH Maui in 2002 and took many Hawaiian Language and culturalclasses.In 2015 my own
keikiwas accepted to Punana Leo Hawaiian Immersion Preschool inWailuku fortwo years and then at Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani
in 2017 untiltoday where she isin her 5th and finalyear there. My other daughter who isa cancer survivorwas
accepted to Punana Leo but was diagnosed with Neuroblastoma simultaneously. Afterfinishingher treatments she
started at Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniand has been there the last4 years as well as she enters her 3rd grade year. Itisa dream
come true for me to offerthisexperience of Hawaiian immersion education as Igot to see itgrow so much inthe last30
years!
Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilanihas taught our familyso much! Thanks to thisschool we know how to farm and produce traditional
food for our familywith our very own papa ku'i'aiand pohaku ku'i'aiso we can make our own pa'i'ailOur children
also learned how to carve theirvery own Pahu drum lastyear as the culminationof the KalaiPahu class.Hearing them
play theirPahu when they are learninga chant ischicken skin and these important culturalutensilsand implements will
be with us forgenerations to come.
Isupport the continued presenceof KKOP in'TaoValley.This school at thisparticularlocationisan integralpart of the
growth inour community as we shiftour focus to culturalsurvivaland sustainability;to upliftthe Hawaiian values that
are ingrainedinthe historyof thisland.
The learningenvironment at the Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilanicampus Isperfectforthe programs itsupports as 'Ainafocused
curriculum.The educationalexperience that my childrenhave had atthiswahi pana (storied/ sacred place)is
l
priceless.They have learnedinvaluableknowledge ofthislandand willbe strongleadersinour community becauseof
thisamazing foundation inHawaiian cultureand language.
Hawaiian language and cultureisso important and ifitisnot given a strongspace inour community forour keikio Ka
'Ainaitwillnot suryiVeallthe changes inthe socialfabricofour islands;especiallywithso many localfamilieshavingto
move away and newcomers are replacingthem who are not necessarilyinterestedinassimilatingintoa Hawaiian
culturallifestyle. ; wM - ●
Our language isour Culturalidentityand itisso great to be a part of the new generations that knows it'slanguage and
values again and especiallyto be a partof the time forenlightenment inthe Hawaiian Islands.
Today, lessthan 2% of the Hawaii population can speak 'OleloHawa'ii.The 'Olelomust live,so that we can liveand
preserve forour posteritythe legacyof Malamalama, Oia'i'o,Kuleana, Kanawai, Mana, Na'auao, Ola,Ohana, and Aloha,
handed down from our kupuna 1ka wa mamua.
Mahalo,
Rachael Ray Au Hoon
U'i Gallery
360 Papa Place Unit Z
Kahului, HI 96732
808-893-2149
www.rachaelrayartcollection.com
Experience Aloha!
2
Count^^CletJc
From:
Sent:
"A Napua B (napuamaui)" <waiheelimurestoration@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 12:45 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins:Tamara Paltin;Shane Sinenci;YukileiSugimura;KellyT
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123 RE KE KULAO PIILANI AT lAO,
WAILUKU, MAUI
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom waiheelimurestoration@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisis
important
Aloha kakou Council
Submitting thisTestimony insupport of Ke Kuia0 Piilani,an independent immersion language program school at lao
ValleyWorthy of County's Interestas to the land as stewards of land in laoValley.
A descendant of the Mahihelelima of laoValley,support Ke Kula 0 Piilaniand Maui County inmoving to purchase the
land upon which The Nature Conservancy situpon. Thisisthe most appropriatestep inacknowledging Ke Kulao Piilani
to be stewards of a significantsiteHistoricallywellknown inthe Historyof Hawai'iand highlyregarded and respected by
the Hawaiian people.This strategicmove to honor the generationsof Kupuna not only from the area but throughout
Hawai'ineiand beyond due to itsrichhistory.As well as very dear to home to my 'ohana family.
Iam a native Hawaiian, an educator in Hawaiian Study Kupuna Component inthe Department of Education DOE, a
practitionerrestoringHawai'i'snativelimu aglae,a genealogist,a grandmother, a mother, a wife and a registeredvoter.
Ihumbly impress upon you to FUND - KE KULA '0 PI'ILANI'ohana and theirefforts.Approve acquisitionof the land and
Kuleana for the school and site.
Alyson N Barrows
OOOT! 73803 Ho'omau Street
Wailuku, Hi 96793
Email: waiheelmurestoration(Sgmail.com
PHone: (808) 264-4135
C*T1
mcr>
a-4 Irn-< moo
^T1 <
m—I m
7^rr\ OV/l
o
1
County Clerk
ntjIC£IVED
282?WIG-5 W 8=19
From:
Sent:
Maui_County Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:03AM
begoniabarry@gmail.com; County Clerk
Maui_County Council_mailbox
FW:CR22 73
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
To:
Cc:
OFFIG'E OF the
gounty clerkSubject:
Attachments:
Aloha Barbara,
Forwarding your email to countv.clerk@mauicountv.us as per the attached 8/5/22 Council Agenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Sendees
808-270-7838
From: Barbara Barry<begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, August 04, 2022 8:23 PM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject: CR22 73
I You don't often get email from begoniabarrv@gmail.com. Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
Isupport opening up a formal investigationintothe Napiliconstructionprojectof Greg Brown.
Ibelievethisinvestigationwillexpose multipleinstancesof fraud by Greg Brown Development, abuses of authorityby
Department Directors,and even payoffsto Plan Examiners that allowed Greg Brown to get an SMA Permit Exemption
that he never qualifiedfor.
Brown's projectisunfortunatelytypicalof how a smallgroup of corruptdevelopers,licensedprofessionalsand complicit
County officialsabuse the multipleloopholesthatfor decades have allowed the exploitationof Maui's land development
process,violatingour community's rights,drainingour tax dollars,and destroyingour preciouscoastalenvironment.
Isupport Council Member Paltin'sbold act as the Administration includingand especiallyCorporation Council,willsurely
attempt to silencethisinvestigationintotheirroleinthese wrongdoings.
Istronglysupport the Councilto hold accountable the individualbad actorsas an example to others,and to use what is
learned inthisinvestigationto adopt simple legislativefixesthat we have proposed to closethe loopholes and stop this
abuse once and for ail.
Isupport the removal of the buildingas well.
Mahalo,
Barbara Barry
Ha'iku
1
Count^^Cied< i\/pn
From:
Sent:
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:06AM
rsbayes@gmail.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
mi Alffi-5 AH 8=19
To:
Cc:
OFFICE OF THEFW: SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO
APPROVALS
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Renee,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@,mauicountv.us as per the attached 8/5/22 Council Agenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
From: Renee Bayes <rsbayes@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 7:28 AM
To: MauLCounty Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BROWN'S BOGUS APPROVALS
I You don'toften get email from rsbaves@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Ibelievethisinvestigationwillexpose multipleinstancesof fraud by Greg Brown Development, abuses of authorityby
Department Directors,and even payoffsto Plan Examiners that allowed Greg Brown to get an SMA Permit Exemption
that he never qualifiedfor.
Brown's projectisunfortunatelytypicalof how a smallgroup of corruptdevelopers,licensedprofessionalsand complicit
County officialsabuse the multipleloopholesthatfordecades have allowed the exploitationof Maui's land development
process,violatingour community's rights,drainingour tax dollars,and destroyingour preciouscoastalenvironment.
Isupport the Council Member's bold act here as the Powers That Be, includingand especiallyCorporationCouncil,will
surelyattempt to silencethisinvestigationintotheirrole inthese wrongdoings.
1stronglysupport the Councilto hold accountable the individualbad actorsas an example to others,and to use what is
learned inthisinvestigationto adopt simple legislativefixesthat we have proposed to closethe loopholes and stop this
abuse once and for all.
Renee S.Bayes
NapiliResident
1
Count^£leH< RCClI'vCD
Evelyn Brito<rustye!b@hawaiiantel.net>
Thursday,August4,202211:30AM A(i6"4 |2^i|9
County Clerk
Alice L.Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.Siner|a;jYplji^i^uajmu^-^ellyKing;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson COIIWTY Pi
"BILLNO. 123,A BILLFOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDiXA OFTHFI^Hr
YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL
PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/ SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR
2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULT
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom rustyelb@hawaiiantel.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Kakou,
Ithas come to my attentionthatthe Maui County Councilwillbe meeting thisFridayto authorizethe purchase and
acquisitionofthe former 'TaoLodge atManiania,mauka of Kepaniwai Park,from itscurrent owners on behalfof the
community, specificallyto providea home for Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani.
"BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY
OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART !l,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/ SPECIAL FUNDS FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND". Through thisbill,the
Budget Directorof the Mayor's Officehas asked the Maui County Councilto authorizeup to $1,500,000.00for
acquisitionof the land,buildings,and structuresassociatedwith TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006 and TMK No. (2}3-3-003-008
locatedat875 'TaoValleyRoad,Wailuku,Maui,Hawai'ifrom the Hawaii Nature Center on behalfof Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani.
Ke Kula 'o Pillaniisa non-profit,independent Hawaiian cultureand language immersion elementary school.We
encourage our community of learnersto become the livingmanifestationsof aloha,kindness,compassion and charity,
kuleana,responsibility,authorityand privilegetempered by care and concern—and Imi 'ike(a life-longcommitment to
seeking awareness, understanding,knowledge, and wisdom). This purchase and agreement between the County of Maui
and Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniwillallow us the opportunityto be the stewards of thissacred place,to uplifta continued native
Hawaiian presence inthe valley,to authenticallyshare the essence of 'ikekupuna, traditionalwisdom, and to rootthese
values ina permanent home and 'ainabase forthe benefitof our community.
icome from a long lineof kalo famers. Our lo'lkalo (taropatch)islocatedon the foothillsof Mauna Kahalawai. This
Kuleana land has been inour 'ohana forover a century. And we stillpracticeour Hawaiian cultureinother areas as
growing indigenous plantsfor healingand food, etc. One day, this'ainawillbelong to the next generation of Kanaka
Maoli.
1stronglysupport the passage of thisbill.Inthe long term itwillbenefitour community by helpingto perpetuate
Hawaii's Language and culture. Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilanihas a proven trackrecord of helpingthese childrento grow intheir
language skillsand they are immersed inthe culture,historyand traditionsof the Hawaiian people.
Please consider passing BillNo. 123 infavor of Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani.
Mahalo Nui Loa
Evelyn (Haleakala)Brito
1
Count^£leiJ< R&CiiV£D
From:
Sent:
Evelyn Brito<rustyelb@hawaiiantel.net>
Thursday, August 4,2022 7:19 AM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinei;iqi|-i!^|i:Jj^i^ifnu|‘^;.|£
kelly.king@maucounty.us;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gah^'^Jijp^p^YWRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, EC
mi AUG AH & 13
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom rustyelb@hawaiiantel.netLearnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Kakou,
Ithas come to my attentionthatthe Maui County Councilwillbe meeting thisFridayto authorizethe purchase and
acquisitionofthe former Tao Lodge atManiania,mauka of Kepaniwai Park,from itscurrentowners on behalfof the
community, specificallyto provide a home for Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani.
Ke Kuia 'o Pi'ilaniisa non-profit,independent Hawaiian cultureand language immersion elementary school.We
encourage our community of learnersto become the livingmanifestationsof aloha,kindness,compassion and charity,
kuleana,responsibility,authorityand privilegetempered by care and concern—and 'imi'ike(alife-longcommitment to
seeking awareness, understanding,knowledge, and wisdom). Thispurchase and agreement between the County of Maui
and Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniwillallow us the opportunity to be the stewards of thissacred place,to uplifta continued native
Hawaiian presence inthe valley,to authenticallyshare the essence of 'ikekupuna, traditionalwisdom, and to rootthese
values ina permanent home and 'ainabase forthe benefitof our community.
"BILL NO, 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY
OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/ SPECIAL FUNDS FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND". Through thisbill,the
Budget Directorof the Mayor's Officehas asked the Maui County Councilto authorizeup to $1,500,000.00for
acquisitionof the land, buildings,and structuresassociatedwith TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006and TMK No. (2)3-3-003-008
locatedat875 'TaoValleyRoad,Wailuku,Maui,Hawai'ifrom the Hawai'iNature Center on behalfof Ke Kula'oPi'ilani.
Istronglysupport the passage of thisbill.Inthe longterm itwillbenefitour community by helpingto perpetuate
Hawaii's Language and culture. Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilanihas a proven trackrecord of helpingthese childrento grow intheir
language skillsand they are immersed inthe culture,historyand traditionsof the Hawaiian people.
Iliveinthe Wailuku districtof Maui and have been practicingHawaiian cultureby raisingKalo inthe Hawaiian tradition
for more than 40 years. These traditionshave been passed down from our Kupuna from generationto generation,and
we willcontinue to pass on thistraditionto our Keikiand Mo'opuna.
Please consider passing BillNo. 123 infavor of Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani.
Mahalo Nui
Gary A.L. Brito
1
Count^£lerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 12:10 PM
mccmn@yahoo.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
FW; SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BROWN'S BOGUS
APPROVALS
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Mary,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicountv.us as per the attached 8/5/22 Council Agenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Ser\dces
808-270-7838
From: mary carlson<mccmn@yahoo.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 10:57 AM
To: Maui_County CounciI_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BROWN’S BOGUS APPROVALS
I You don't often get email from mccmn(a)vahoo.com. Learn why thisisimportant
I believethisinvestigationwillexpose multipleinstancesof fraudby Greg
Brown Development, abuses of authorityby Department Directors,and
even payoffsto Plan Examiners thatallowed Greg Brown to get an SMA
PermitExemption thathe never qualifiedfor.Brown's projectis
unfortunatelytypicalof how a smallgroup of corruptdevelopers,licensed
professionalsand complicitCounty officialsabuse themultipleloopholes
thatfordecades have allowed the exploitationof Maui’s land development
process,violatingour community’s rights,drainingour tax dollars,and
destroyingour preciouscoastalenvironment. I supportthe Counci
Member's bold acthere as the Powers That Be, includingand especially
Corporation Council,willsurelyattemptto silencethisinvestigationinto
theirroleinthesewrongdoings. I stronglysupportthe Councilto hold
accountablethe individualbad actorsas an example to others,and to use
what islearnedinthisinvestigationto adopt simple legislativefixesthat
we have proposed to closethe loopholesand stopthisabuse once and for
all.Please forthe courtesyof bringingback dignityand ethicalbehavior
in the gross oversiteof thesedevelopersallover the island.How can you1
possiblyletthismonstrosityof a structureruinour wonderful community
ofNapiliBay. Looking forwardto complete resolutionof this
matter.Thank you, Jeffand Mary Caye Carlson owners atNapiliShores
County^leHc
From:
Sent:
ShelleyCaparso <samadeo76@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4, 2022 12:03 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King:Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123,A BILLFOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don’toftenget emailfrom samadeo76@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
ShelleyCaparso
P. 0. Box 330977
Kahului, HI 96733
August 4'^ 2022
To the distinguishedmembers of the Maui County Council,
Aloha,my name isShelleyCaparso and I'mwritingtoyou insupport of Ke Kula'oPi'ilanithatthey may keep theirpresence at lao
Valleyand continueto thriveina placesurrounded by our culture.Iwas born and raisedhere on Maui and raisingmy childrenhere
as well.Beinga partof Halau Hula Kauluokalaand having been dancing hula my entirelife,Ihave a deep connectionwith our
cultureand iknow the importance of preservingand perpetuatingthe Hawaiian cultureand language.
Thisiswhat Ke Kula'o Pi'ilaniisdoing forour keikiand why thisbillisso important.
Mahalo Nui,
ShelleyCaparso
samadeo76@gmail.com
3
goG“n
CTh
m
oI
●< moo “n
m H rn
OX m
o
1
Count^^leH< RFnFIVED
im AUG -4 AH 8' 11From:
Sent:
ChristinaCervantes <eyesforwardfilms@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 5:33 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.5ineno;(YiTl4i(iiBu§)flnurteH^^ly
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Cc:
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
Subject:
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom eyesforwardfiims@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
Iam infullsupport of thisbill,BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/
SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND".
Mahalo,
Christina Cervantes
1
RECEIVED
mi AUG -4 AH O 43 August 4, 2022
OFFICE OF THE
GOUNtY CLERKAloha mai kakou.
My name isKapua Chang and Iam writingtestimony insupport of BillNo. 123, which would allow the
Maui County Councilto authorize$1,500,000.00forthe aquisitionof the land,buildingsand structures
associated with TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006 and TMK No. 3-3-003-008locatdat875 'TaoValleyRd.
Wailuku, HI from the Hawaii Nature Center on behalfof Ke Kula '0 PHIani.
Iam the former Manager of the Hawaii Nature Center ['Taosite]and spent11 yearsworkingforthe
organization.1no longer work for HNC, but am stillan activevolunteer and supporter of both HNC and
Ke Kula 'O Pi'iiani.
Igrew up inthe small town of Ma'ili,located inthe moku of Wai'anae on O'ahu. 1moved to Maui in
2009 and began working at the Hawaii Nature Center in2010. Although my work forHNC introducedme
to 'Tao,my alohaforthatwahi hasgrown immensely and ithas become my 'ohana'sfavoriteand most
cherished place.We have raisedour three keikiinthat kahawai (stream)and spent years learningabout
the hisotryand significanceof thatarea.
The stewardship of that space deserves an entitythat isintrinsicallyconnected to our kupuna, our keiki
and our community. Icannot think of a betteroption than Ke Kula'0 Pi'iiani.
Itrulyhope you willvote insupport of BillNo. 123 and furtherthe perpetuationof Hawaiian culture,
traditionand knowledge inthat space.
Mahalo nui foryour consideration.
Me ke aloha,
Chaylise K.Chang
From: margaret dalzell
Sent:Thursday, August 4,2022 3:37 PM
To: County Clerk
Cc: AliceL Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; KellyKing;Tasha
A. Kama; Mike J.Molina; Gabe Johnson
Subject:WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILLNO. 123,A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,
SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
I You don'toftenget emailfrom margaretdalzeJ[@^ahpg.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha e Maui County Council Members,
My name isMargaret HalelokeGarcia Dalzell.1have been a partof thecommunity of Maui allmy life.My
father'sfamilyisdeeplyrootedinWailuku. And, 1have chosen to make Maui a placeto raisemy daughterand to
sharetheculture,history,languageand alohathatisunique to Maui.
Iam a member of the Royal Order of Kamehameha, Kahekili- Na Wahine Hui O Kamehameha KahekiliHelu
Eha. I am also haumana of Na Hanona Kulike 'o Pi'ilani.
I am writingto providetestimony in supportof BillNo. 123. Itwillallow Ke Kula 'oPi'ilanithe opportunityto be
stewards of the land they are now on and continuethe education of our keikiin a very specialway.
Ke Kula 'oPi'ilaniisunique inthatthe platformof how thesekeikiaretaughtismindful and focused,teachingthe
valuesand practicesof our cultureto carefortheaina.
The studentslearnatan earlyage to be stewards,caretakersof the landthey liveand learnon. This awareness
allowsthem to become more aware,ina deeper way, buildinga relationshipunique to thespecialareathat
surrounds them. "Ua Mau Ke Ea O Ka Aina 1 Ka Pono"
Pleaseallow Ke Kula 'oPi'ilanicontinuetheirpresence as stewards,through Bill123. And, allow them to continue
to offerlessonsthatgo fartherthanjustthe bordersof a classroom. Ke Kula 'oPi'ilanisharesthe essence of'ike
kupuna, traditionalwisdom. They have been a respectfulpresencein laoValleyand actas thoughtfulstewardsfor
the landthey areon.
oo
Q-Tl
C32
Zo
Mahalo foryour time and consideration. 73
mSincerely,
MargaretHalelokeGarciaDalzell
era
o
m-<
o <o s-n
r* mm-H
:ox OJS
O
County Clerk RPrPi'./Fn
KonaneakamahinaAwo de iaNux <konane.awo@gmail.co«i>i,,f»●● .y o. i *5
Thursday,August4,20226:53AM AUb AH 0=I3
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sine5i<:j;(y@cilf)pugl$R(i|Ta;Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget email from konane.awo@gmail.com. Learn why thisis
important at https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha kakou,
Iam writinginsupport of billno. 123 so Ke Kula 0 Piilanican continue to provide Hawaiian immersion education to our
keikias wellas provide culturaltoolsand educationto familieswithin our community inorder to perpetuate our native
practices.
Ihave worked there as a counselor and support forthe kumu. 1could see firsthand how passionate Kekai Robinson &
the kumu are about our keiki,culture,language community and 'ohana. 1saw how they care forthe place thatthey are
in the which has direct benefits to the environment. Iask thatyou support billno. 123 so our keiki& community can
continue to have an educational space such as Ke Kula 0 Piilani.
Ke aloha no,
Konane de la Nux
Wai'ehu, Maui
1
Count^Cleij<
From:
Sent:
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:29 AM
happybirds148@gmail.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
FW: SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BROV\/N'S BOGUS
APPROVALS
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Diana,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicounty.us as per the attached 8/5/22 CouncilAgenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
OriginalMessage—
From: Diana <happybirdsl48@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 8:10 AM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BRO\A/N'S BOGUS APPROVALS
(You don'toften get email from happybirdsl48@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Ibelievethisinvestigationwillexpose multipleinstancesof fraud by Greg Brown Development, abuses of authorityby
Department Directors,and even payoffsto Plan Examiners that allowed Greg Brown to get an SMA Permit Exemption
that he never qualifiedfor.
Brown's projectisunfortunatelytypicalof how a small group of corruptdevelopers,licensedprofessionalsand complicit
County officialsabuse the multipleloopholes that fordecades have allowed the exploitationof Maui's land development
process, violatingour community's rights,draining our tax dollars,and destroyingour precious coastalenvironment.
1support the Council Member's bold act here as the Powers That Be, includingand especiallyCorporationCouncil,will
surelyattempt to silencethisinvestigationintotheirroleinthese wrongdoings.
Istrongly support the Council to hold accountable the individualbad actorsas an example to others,and to use what is
learned inthisinvestigationto adopt simple legislativefixesthat we have proposed to closethe loopholesand stop this
abuse once and for all.
Sent from my iPhone760-519-8756
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
Maui_County Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:52AM
edrayer@msn.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
FW: Support forCR 22-73 Maui County Council
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Aloha Erin,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@,mauicountv.us as per the attached 8/5/22 Council Agenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
From: ErinDrayer <edrayer@msn.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 8:49 AM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Support forCR 22-73 Maui County Council
I You don'toften get email from edraverOmsn.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Hello....
Iam submittingstrongsupport forTamara PaltinCommittee to launchformal investigationof approvalsof Greg Brown's
Napilistructure.
Thank you,
Erin Drayer
37 Maha Road
Makawao, HI 96768
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
MauLCounty CoundLmaiibox
Friday,August 5,2022 10:26AM
lindseydrayer@icloud.com;County Clerk
MauLCounty CoundLmaiibox
FW: Investigate
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Lindsey,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicounty.us as per the attached 8/5/22 CouncilAgenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
OriginalMessage—
From: Lindsey Drayer<lindseydrayer@icloud.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 10:24 AM
To: MauLCounty Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Investigate
[You don'toftenget emailfrom lindseydrayer@icloud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Pleaseinvestigatethe Napilistructure!
Thank you.
Lindsey Drayer
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
RFHTiTTEn
From:
Sent:
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:05AM
mdrayGrhome@msn.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
FW: Support forCR 22-73 Maui County Council
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
mi AUG -5 AH & 19To:
Cc:
OFFICE GF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Mary,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicounty.us as per the attached 8/5/22 CouncilAgenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
—Original Message—
From: mary drayer <mdrayerhome@msn.com>
Sent: Thursday, August 04, 2022 8:36 PM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Support for CR 22-73 Maui County Council
[You don'toften get email from mdrayerhome@msn.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
iam submitting STRONG SUPPORT forTamara PaltinCommittee to launchformalinvestigationof approvalsof Greg
Brown's Napilistructure.
Mahalo,
Mary Drayer
557 Imi Dr
Wailuku, Hi 96793
Sent from my iPad
1
RECEIVED
Aloha e na ‘aha kuka o ka moku o Mauinuiakama! Mahalo nui AH& 12‘ana i keia noi e kokua ‘ana ia Ke Kula ‘O Pi ‘ilani.
OFFICE OF THE
(Hello council members of the island of Mauinuiakama! Thank youQ^Mbl®fc^LERK
hearing thispleato help Ke Kula ‘O Pi‘ilani.)
My name isKrystinKanani Duarte and I am a residentof Maui thatwas born and
raisedin Wailuku. I am trulyhappy thatyou are takingthe time to read/listento
allthe letterscoming inthatare in support ofyou folksvotinginfavorofthe
proposalofBillNo. 123,tohelppurchasethe propertyoftheold Hawai'i Nature
CenterinlaoValley.In doing so,you willbe insupportofthepropertytobe the
propertyofthe independent Hawaiian immersion elementary school,Ke Kula ‘O
Pi‘ilanito continueusingthe propertyformany yearsto come. They are a great
group ofpeople,from the Kahu (Principal),totheteachersand guestspeakers
who come to teach allthe keikiof Maui the importance ofthe Hawaiian values,
‘olelo,and culturalpracticesina way tokeep our historyand storiesaliveforthe
futuregenerations.
Pleasehear not onlywith your earsbut with your heartinthe storiesthatthe
schoolon the propertyofTMK No. (2)3-3-003-006 and TMK No. (2)3-3-003-
008 has touched and means so much to a bunch ofpeople from variouswalks of
lifeand fordifferentreasons.Wlietheritbeing a parent ofa student,family
members of the staffinvolved with with school,or a member of the Hawaiian
communtiy and a residentofthe islandofMaui.
Thank you again forhelping our community in perpetuatingtheHawaiian culture
activities,historyand languageby votinginfavorofBillNo. 123.
With warm positivethoughts.
Krystin Kanani Duarte
(>
■r\
montessori
schooiofmaui
RECEIVED
im WG -4 PH h 19
BOARD OF TRUSTEES August 4, 2022
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKDear Members of the Maui County Council:OFFICERS
Christopher Smith
PRESIDENT Please accept thisletteron behalfand infullsupport of Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani,a
non-profit,independent Hawaiian cultureand language immersion elementary
school,presentlyutilizingTao Lodge atManiania,mauka of Kepaniwai Park to
host itsschool operations.Iunderstand that considerationsare being made to
purchasethe former 'TaoLodge atManianiato ensurea permanent home for Ke
Kula 'o Pi'ilani.Know that Iam infullsupport.
Sara Tekula
VICE PRESIDENT
Emma Burns Cabiles
SECRETARY
Salma Ansari
TREASURER
Ihad the pleasure of visitingKe Kula 'o Pi'ilaniin February 2021 as a
representativeof the Hawai'iCouncilof PrivateSchools.In conducting our
Annual LicensingVisit,Ifound the shared space between Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniand
the Hawaii Nature Center facilitatesa unique learningexperience forthe
childrenand the community. Moreover, alignment with the school'smission
and visionalignswell under thisextraordinarypartnership as they permeate all
facets of the school program.
TRUSTEES
Jeremy Baldwin
Chad Goodfellow
Heather Haynes, MD
John Guarin
Allyson Mattox
Robert Pellettieri
Kate Peterson
Klaus Simmer
Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniisa smallschool,eager to buildupon itsearlysuccesses and
strong philosophicaland foundational beliefs.With rapid change and
adjustment necessary with anything in itsinfancy,itappears to have a strong
sense of what itneeds to do and how itcan best and most successfullyget
there.The purpose and intentionof Ke Kula O Pi'ilaniisundeniable, emanating
with great clarityand enthusiasm. Action by the Maui County Council to ensure
thatKe Kula'oPi'ilaniremainsat'TaoLodge atManianiawillensure itsabilityto
maintain its momentum and to continue itsvaluable work for itsschool and the
broader Maui Community.
Jacob Simons
Ben Summit
Lisa Tomihama
Erica White
Heather Zidell
Should you have questions or feelthat additionalinformation could be helpful,
please contact me.
HONORARY
BOARD MEMBERS
Susan R. Graham
Annie Nelson
Cynthia Quisenberry
Cherry Anne Sutherland
Sincerely,
HEAD OF SCHOOL
Eric L Dustman, PhD
Head of School
Montessori School of Maui
ericd@momi.org
808-573-0374O
Eric L Dustman. PhD
C C J. 3 o\J w n y y s u u u c
2933 Baldwin Avenue Makawao, Hawai'i 96768 ph: 808.573.0374 fax: 808,573.0389 www.momi.org
Count^^leH<
Anna Eckart-Dodd <pohuboy@gmail.com>
Thursday, August 4,2022 9:00 AM
County Clerk
AliceL.Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A, Paltin;Shane IJ^jSip^^^Yi^i^i^ijL|^ura;KellyKing;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A B
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent: mi MJG-4 Ml» 12To:
Cc:
CQUNTV CLERKICLTOR AN ORDINANCESubject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom pohuboy@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council Members,
1 am writinginsupportof BillNo. 123 which willauthorizefundsfortheacquisitionof
TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006 and TMK No. (2)3-3-003-008 in laoValleyon behalfof Ke
Kula ‘o Pihlani.
I attended medical school at John A. Bums School of Medicine and did residencyatthe
Universityof Hawaii.Following training,Iworked forseveralyearsatKapiolaniMedical
Center and The Queen‘s Medical Center.Ihave dedicatedmyself tothe Queen‘s mission
of caringforthepeople of Hawai‘i.I currentlyserveas a physicianatMaui Memorial.
Viewed from thatlens,I recognizethe importantroleKe Kula ‘o PiTlaniplaysin the
healthof our community. The educationalprograms provided by the schoolstrengthen
cross-generational,community, and familialrelationships.These connections are
protectiveof mental healthand well being.
In addition,Ke Kula ‘o PiTlaniwas a pillarof supportfor the community during the
pandemic. During the early days of COVID-19, the school partneredwith Kaiser
Permanente to host COVID-19 vaccine clinics. These clinicsprovidedearlyaccessto
vaccinesforhundreds of high-riskmembers of the Maui community. Additionally,the
schooladdressedtheeconomic hardshipsby providingfood boxes forseveralfamilies.
The county acquisitionof the land in lao willprovidea stablehome forKe Kula ‘o
Pihlani.This stabilitywillhelp ensurethatthe schoolwillcontinueits‘good work in
perpetuity.
As a Board Member, a parent,a community member, and a physician,I wholeheartedly
supportthisbill.Iam gratefultothe County Council fortheirsupport.
Anna Eckart-Dodd, MD
1
Count^^Cletjc KhLlr.i'v'bU
From:
Sent:
Lani Eckart-Dodd <lanilehua@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 7;37AM
County Clerk
Alice L.Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. SinenchYukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson OFFICE OF THE
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL
im AUG -4 AH & 13To:
Cc:
Subject:
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,... . ●
Aloha kakou,
Over thepast7 years,I have been involvedinthedevelopment and supportof Maui‘s home-grown independent
Hawaiian immersion elementaryschool,Ke Kula O Piilani.My involvement began in2015 when a friendasked
me tohosther daughter‘sclassatour family‘skalofarm. Since thatfirstencounter,I'vefalleninlovewith the
childrenand the school,it‘svisionand potential.I'veenrolledboth of my children,have become theresource
teacherformahi‘ai(agriculturalstudies),hostedmany hana no‘eau (culturalarts/crafts)workshops, helpedwith
stafftrainingand professionaldevelopment,and writtengrantsforschoolprograms.
As an independentschoolthatdoesn‘treceivefundingor supportfrom the Dept,of Education ,Ke Kula 0
Piilaniissupportedby theschoolcommunity (parents,staff,families),theMaui community-at-large,and other
partners.And intheselast7 yearswatching theschoolgrow exponentially,I have come torealizehow enriched
our community reallyis.When we pool our resources(human, cultural,financial),and investinourselves,we
are empowered to do greatthings.Since the school isindependent,theonus totakecareof everythingfrom the
curriculumdevelopment,staffing,to grounds maintenance,ison us.What a fantasticmodel of self-efficacywe
have demonstrated for our children!
Moving forward,we require2 main thingsinordertomaintainthegrowth oftheschooland thequalityof
educationalexperienceour childrenreceive.First,iscontinuedcommunity investment.Second, and more
criticalinthismoment, isa securedpermanent ainabase.We need our home base secured.Hawaiian education
isa studyof our naturalworld and our placeas humans intheecosystem.With our Maui County CounciPs
support to purchase the land thatthe school currentlyoccupies,we arerelievedof the worry of relocation.
Instead,focuscan remain on theprograms thattheschooldelivers.
Lastly,as a residentof laoValley,Iam verypleasedattheprospectof theCounty purchasingtheainaat
Maniania.The naturalbeautyof theareaisobvious.So many people,both localsand visitors,aredrawn to
experiencethatbeauty.The areaisalsovery richwith mo‘oIelo and the ainaitselfisa culturalresource.Itis
importantthatwe protectand preservethatareainperpetuity.The County‘spurchaseoftheproperlywillhelp
ensurethat.And through a partnershipwith Ke Kula 0 Piilani,a legacyplanforitsstewardshipisalready
woven in.
Mahalo nui loaforseizingthisopportunitytoprotectone of Maui‘s most preciousnaturaland culturaltreasures
and supportingour home-grown educationalprogram.
Ola Piilani!
Me ke aloha,
Lani Eckart-Dodd
1
252 lao Valley Road
Wailuku, Maui
Li.; . R. ■> '
HA
5HT =10 iiOi-nO
>i;*3J0 YTHUe:.
2
Count^Clerk
^ <Qaturejay@gmail.com>
rA&lust4,202210:37AM
From:
Sent:
,yFimi AUG - lU
To: County Clerk
f^3wlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
GOUNT¥in0lJgti«7-Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnsonWRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom naturejay@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
To whom itmay concern.
Aloha mai kakou,
Iam writingin support of "Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani"becoming the stewards of the property above Kepaniwai park
which has been managed formerly by Hawai'iNature Center.
Iwas the former HNC programs manager and caretakerof that facilityfrom 2007-2010 and am very pleased
with the marked improvements and upkeep of the property under the current stewardship of Ke Kula 'o
Pi'ilani.The historiclegacyof the area iswell served by theirlearningcommunity and they have the presence
and resources to maintain the constant needs of the facilities.Furthermore, theirtieswith Hawaiian
culturallearningprovidesthe needed understanding of the kuleana oftakingcare of such sacred lands.
Thank you for your time and consideration,
John “Jay" Franey
326 Pukalani St.
Pukalani, HI 96768
Jay Franey,adventure specialist
natureiav@gmail.com
808-357-1022
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Denby Freeland<denby.freeland@hilt.org>
Thursday, August 4,2022 12:47 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom denby.freeland@hilt.org.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council,
Thank you fortakinga moment to read through my letterof support forKe Kula 'o Pi'ilani.My name isDenby Freeland,
Iam an educator and culturalpractitioneron Maui. My nativeHawaiian heritageisrooted inWest Maui through both of
my parents. Ihave worked outdoors with students forever 20 years. Includingmany years as an Environmental
Educator and Maui Program Manager at Hawaii Nature Center,'TaoValley.IleftHawaii Nature Centerover 12 years
ago and currentlywork for Hawaii Land Trust. Ioccasionallyhave the pleasure of working with the staffand families
from Ke Kula 'o Pillani.
Iam veryfamiliarwiththe propertyat875 'laoValleyRoad. Ithas been extremely dishearteningover the years to
witness the steady declineof the site.The lackof educationalprograms offeredby Hawaii Nature Center and the
deteriorationof the buildingsand the 'ainahas been incrediblysad to see. The one glimmer of hope Ihave when Igo to
lao isknowing thatthere isalreadya group of people on Hawaii Nature Center propertythat are wanting to nurture
the area. Ke Kula 'o Pillaniand theircommunity have the potentialto care forthe land while also using itas a resource
fortheireducation programs. Pleaseallow Ke Kula 'o Pillanito acquire thiskuleana.
Ionce was a part of an operation that educated childrendailywhile takingprideand honor in being locatedina special
place in lao. Iwould love to see some excitement, energy and responsibilityagaininTao. Therefore,Ifullysupport Bill
no. 123, Special Purpose Revenues, for FiscalYear 2023, Economic Development and CulturalPrograms Revolving Fund -
Ke Kula'oPillani,Tao, Maui, Hawaii.
Mahaio foryour consideration,
Denby Freeland
OO 73O-n
50-irn
m
oDenby Freeland
Director of 'Aina Education - Hawaii Land Trust
email: denbv.freeland@hilt.org
cell:(808)866-6621	
I
x=
-<
O 3 <.
o -n
mr*
(9m
7;n
O\jy
o
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
BillGarcia<weg@wisperhawaii.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 12:20 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT
PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS - KE KULA O PI'ILANI
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who received thismessage don't often get email from weg@wisperhawaii.com. Learn why thisis
important <https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Mai,
0 wai inoa e William E Garcia Jr. of Wailuku. Iam writing,as a practitionerof Hawaiian Protocol,insupport of the above
billas itpertainsto Ke Kuka 0 Pi'ilani.1have known the directorof Ke Kula for severalyears,and she has proven to be a
resultorientedindividualwho placesthe education of her studentsfirst.There can be no bettersurroundingthan the
present locationthe Ke Kula 0 Pi'ilaniand the ever present sound of the waters of Kane inthe background. Mahalo
3OO
O Ti
C"n
“jm
r«n*
73
m
oi
-< x; r-*~»
I ^
oo -n
mm -3
7s m O
O
1
received
AUG-i|AH||:02
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OFFICE OF VETERANS SERVICES
459 PATTERSON RD. E-WING, RM 1-A103
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96819
TESTIMONY ON COUNTY BILL 110, CD1 (2022),
HOMES OF UNMARRIED SURVIVING SPOUSES OF VETERANS WHO DIED WHILE ON
DUTY AND TOTALLY DISABLED VETERANS
PRESENTATION TO
THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF MAUI
BY
RONALD P. HAN JR.
DIRECTOR, STATE OFFICE OF VETERANS SERVICES
AUGUSTS, 2022
Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the County Council of Maui.
Iam Ron Han, Director,State Officeof Veterans Services (OVS) and Iam providingwrittentestimony
in OPPOSITION of Bill110, CD1 (2022).
Firstand foremost, Iappreciate the County Council of Maui forexploringinitiativesthatcan help to
support our totallydisabled Veterans and unmarried survivingspouses of Veterans who died while on
duty as thismeasure attempts to accomplish.
However, the Officeof Council Services has provided an analysisthat Under Bill110, CD1 (2022),
eligibletotallydisabled Veterans would see theirrealpropertytax raised from $150 to $175, 50
percent of the $350 minimum real property tax set by in the FiscalYear 2023 Budget by Ordinance
5392. This increase of $25 would be a 16.67 percent increase.Severely disabled veterans would
forthe firsttime be eligibleforlower realpropertytax under Section 3.48.575.
Many of our totallydisabled Veterans and survivingspouses of Veterans who died while on duty are
on fixedincomes and any increase thatisabove the current statutemay affectthem adversely,
especially while livingin one of the highest costs of livingareas inthe Nation.
Therefore, Irecommend that the former $150 cap on propertytax be reinstatedinthe draftbill.
Thank you forthisopportunityto provide writtentestimony on behalf of our Veterans and theirloved
ones.
Director Ron Han; rbnald.p.han@hawaii.qov ,(808) 433-0422
RECEIVED
mr AUG -5 AH 7s UO
From: Robert Hibbitt
Sent:Thursday, August 4,2022 2:35 PM
To: County Clerk
Cc:AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;Yukilei
A. Kama; MikeJ. Molina; Gabe Johnson
Subject:WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,
SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FI...
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom r.Qb_kauqii@yahop,cpm.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council,
Iwould liketo thank the councilforconducting thishearing relatedto the acquisitionof
propertyin lao valley.My name isIvy Lou Hibbittand Iam so very fortunateto have
moved to Maui fiveyears ago aftermy son Keanu was born. Iam a Family Nurse
Practitioneroperating my own primary care clinicinMaui Lani. 1was educated on Oahu
and my husband isfrom Kauai which has given us an understanding of how difficultitis
to finda school as unique and specialas Ke Kula O Piilani.
Neithermy husband nor myself are Native Hawaiian butwe stronglyfee!thateducation
in Hawaiian cultureand language provides an alternativeworldview to our traditional
schools and we have enrolled our son in Ke Kula O Piilani in order to give him this.The
locationof Ke Kula 0 Piilaniisofthe utmost importance to the success of the
school. We feelthe mana there. We respect itand we urge the councilto preserve it
by passing thismeasure.
Mahalo,
Ivy Lou Hibbitt,APRN
Maui Family Medicine
Aloha e Maui County Council,
My name isKeala Kaopuiki-Santos.As a lifelongcitizenof Maui County and an employee of
Kamehameha Schools Community Programming forover 13 years,Iam writingto voice my support for
Maui County's acquisitionof the Hawai'i Nature Center (former'TaoLodge)atManianiaand forKe Kula
0 Pi'ilanito continue to operate out of and steward the existingsite.
Through my work with the Kamehameha Schools Ho'olauna Programs, Ihad the pleasure of hosting
students at the Hawai'i Nature Center site for 7 summers. Itwas amazing to experience the beauty of
that 'ainaon a dailybasisand to connect studentswith the cultural,historical,and environmental
significanceof the siteand surrounding area.Ibelievethat many future community leaderswere
cultivatedthrough that program and theirabilityto participateinhands-onlearningin'Tao.The same is
true for the students of Ke Kula o Pi'ilanito this day.
Sixyears ago, we began to partnerwith Ke Kula o Pi'ilaniout of interestinsupporting theirinnovative
approach towards Hawaiian Language and culturaleducation. Over the past 6 years,we have seen Ke
Kula o Piilani'sprogram flourish,and we have witnessed new lifereturnto the 'Taosite.Itisbeautifulto
hear 'oleloHawai'i,oli,and mele at Maniania on a dailybasis.The students and 'ohana of Ke Kula o
Pi'ilaniare blessedwith the opportunityto learnin a non-traditionalschool environment where they can
kilo(observe)the power of nature firsthandand learnHawaiian artssuch as kapa-making, farming and
carving ina placewith immense culturalsignificance.
Isincerelyhope that the Councilwillconsider acquiringthe Maniania siteand allow Ke Kula o Pi'ilanito
continue to operate their program there. Ibelieve in doing so you are helpingto buildthe next
generation of culturalpractitioners,community leadersand champions for'oleloHawai'iand Maui.
Me ka ha'aha'a.
Keala Ka'opuiki-Santos
3289 Keha Dr.
Kihei,HI 96753
kekaopul(g)ksbe.edu
RECEIVED
im AUG -5 AH 7:UOFrom: KellyGordon
Sent: Thursday, August 4, 2022 5:36 PM
To: County Clerk
Cc:AliceL Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sirr^'eirtCikflEKSiiginniHa^KellyKing;Tasha
A. Kama; Mike J.Molina; Gabe Johnson
Subject:WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,
SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FI...
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom kejlygrdn.@yahoo.CQm.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha e Maui County Council,
Thank you foryour time and considerationinauthorizingthe purchase of 'TaoLodge at
Maniania to provide a home fora v\/onderfulschool Ke Kula o Pi'ilani.We 'Ghana
Kalawaia had the great privilegeto have our daughter attend Ke Kula 'oPi'ilanischool
thispast year in2021-2022. We highlyencourage allour friendsand familyto have their
Keikiattend thisschool. The education they provide ismuch needed forthe Keikiof
Maui and Ihave witnessed the amazing outcome in my daughter over justone year
attendingthisschool inhands on activities,she ismore outgoing and vocal ,her
strength,determinationand focus boosted from the outdoor classroom environment and
activitiesthey provide .The Kumu (teachers)and assistantsare so educated and
multitalentedwhich provide both an inspiringand educationalspace forthe keikito be
allthey can be and learnmany valuable skills.
Mahalo nui foryour time again
Aloha
'Ghana Kalawaia
Count^CleH< Rt-:Qf:iVrD
20ZZAUG -il AH 8: 11
From:
Sent:
JO KAMAUNU <johannakamaunu@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 7:01 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;KeaniN. Rawlins;Tamara A.Paltin;ShaaerK^^gj
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnsc
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123
WAILUKU, MAUI
To:
Cc:
ileijSugimura;Kelly^l^ail.comWh lAO,
1-
Subject: O Pi
Ano ai Council,
Itisa pleasureto submit testimony insupport of Ke Kula o Piilani,an independent immersion language program at lao
Valleyworthy of County interestas to the land and itsschool.
Iam Johanna Kamaunu of Waihe'e Valley.Am wife to Kaniloa and motherto 6 children.Mama to 12 grand children.I
am a registeredvoter and an advocate for kanaka and kanaka concerns with a predilectionfor Kingdom of Hawaii law. I
have been a mortgage loan processorand a bank Records Manager forlOyears +. The DOE Hawaiian StudiesKupuna
program was home for 12 years,with 3 years teaching music at King Kekaulike@ substituteteaching as well. Currently,I
am an insurance agent specializinginAppearance Bonds, bailingpeople who have been arrestedworking alongsidelaw
enforcement, attorneys,and the courts.Been doing itabout 12 years.
As a descendant of the Mahihelelima ohana of lao the council'sdecisionto support Ke Kula 0 Piilaniistimely,
appropriate forthe place,and very dear to me forhonoring generationsof kupuna who livedand walked thisvalley,and
forthose of us who are presentto reflectupon the traditionsof thisgreat,storiedlandscape. Let'swork with Ke Kula 0
Piilani,Kekai Robinson and staffto establish new traditionsof learning,traditionsof malama, traditionsof kuleana inour
community that thereby we may restoreand return mana to the valley,our homes and Maui.
As a long time advocate of culture,customary and traditionalpracticesthere isno greater pleasure than to see growth
and understanding ingovernance, community and advocacy. Kekai isone of thisgenerationthatwillestablish
new, beneficialtraditionswith governance. She has worked hard,put inher time,struggledand prepared forthis
opportunity. You would do well to invest in her.
Please FUND - KE KULA '0 PTILANI ohana and their efforts. Approve acquisitionof the land and kuleana forthe school
and site.
Mahalo,
Johanna Kamaunu
222 Waihee Valley Rd,
Wailuku, HI 96793
Email: iohannakamaunu@email.com
Phone: (808)250-6293
1
RPr.FlVED
m2 AUG-u AH8=11
Count^OeH<
KaleleKekauoha-Schultz <kekauoha.schuitz@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 8:54 PM
County Clerk
Alice L.Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.Sinen(^f?tSkllSEuP^ur^'King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson gounty cle
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc: ly
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom kekauoha.schultz@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Welina mai ke aloha Maui County Council,
My name isKalele Kekauoha-Schultz and Iam writingin 100% support of BillNo. 123. As an educator forthe Hawaii
Department of Education forover twenty years,Isee that Ke Kula o Pi'ilani(KKOP) has proven to deliverquality
education that isculturallyrichand steeped in language. Itisvitalthatour keikiof Hawai'ilearnof the traditionsof our
specialplace,because, itisa kuleana that we allhave simple livinghere whether you are of Hawaiian ancestry or not.
I know firsthand the value of 'aina-based education and Ke Kula o Pi'ilaniofferseducation alignedwith the ancestral
principlesthat driveitincludingbuildinghealthy 'ohana, love forones land,sense of belonging and indigenous
knowledge and wisdom. For example, KKOP providefamilystrengtheningactivitiessuch as a stone and board workshop
to provide familieswith toolsto feed themselves physicallyand spiritually.Familieshave learned how to carve pahu or
traditional drums and other native arts that awaken their senses to their environment and to one another. We need this
type of connectivitymore than ever in Maui as we are overwhelmed with an influxof changes and many feeledged out
of 'ainaalltogether. IbelieveKKOP teaches childrennot justto be hosts but to be stewards of thisprecious land and
protect itforfuture generations.
With your approval,Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilaniwillprovidesuch stewardship forwhat iscurrentlytheirsiteof the Hawai'iNature
Center. Thisaloha naturallyextends to the greaterpartsofthe valleyas the leadershipand kumu ofthe schoolalready
instillthat inthe keikias they regularlyhelp to malama 'ainabeyond the boundaries of theircampus, because, itisthe
rightthingto do.
Please approve BillNo. 123 and ensure the continued presence of KKOP in 'lao.Keep our 'ainaincaringhands dedicated
to the childrenof thisland who willbenefitdirectly.
Me ka 'Oia'i'o,
Kaleleonalani Kekauoha-Schultz, MSCP
1
Capt. Michael A. Lilly,USN (Ret.)371 AlaeRd.
Kula, HI 06790
Cell 808-392-0894
Michael@nlilaw.com
GO
7}O-n
mC-n cz
G~3
ot
”1 m mw
OAugust 3, 2022 O
mm --t to
O73 X
7s m
TESTIMONY OF CAPT. MICHAEL A. LILLY ON Bill 110 CD 1
I am a Vietnam War combat veteranwith 30 years’serviceintheU.S. Navy. I am alsoa
member of theGovernor’sAdvisory Board on VeteranAffairsand theMaui Councilon Aging. I
alsoservedas Hawaii’sAttorney General inthe 1980s.
I am submittingthistestimonyon Bill110 CD 1 inmy individualcapacity.
While I supportthe intentof the law,toprovidetaxrelieftocertaindisabledveteransand
theirsurvivingunmarried spouses,Icannot supporta billthatwould reducebenefitstosome
veterans.
This billprovidespropertytaxrelieftoveteranswith 70-99% disabilities.However, it
would increasethecurrentpropertytaxpaid by 100% disableveteransand survivingspousesof
veteranskilledinthe lineof duty.While theamount of thepropertytaxincreaseisrelatively
small,any increaseisnot acceptable.
For thatreason,Icannotsupportthisbillaswritten.Irecommend thattheformer$150
cap on propertytaxbe reinstatedinthe draftbill.
Sincerely,
Michael A. Lilly
received
im AUG-5 A« 7:^0
OFFICE OF THE
Council^^UlafTykyni5'fc^|6l)rdedicationinmakingMaui a
August 4, 2022
Aloha mai kakou to the Maui County
better place and prioritizingculturallyricheducation.
Iwritingwith unwavering and unconditionalsupport of Ke Kula'o Pi'ilanireceivingfull
stewardship, ownership of theirfacility.The staffand community involved are undeniably
dedicated to the fullest. I am a mother of a soon to be second grader that attends Ke Kula. We
entered the school at the beginning of lastyear.Coming out of covid, homeschooling and an
uncertain future.This was not the easiest financialjump, but aftersending our daughter to one
summer school session, we knew whole heartedlywe wanted our daughter to be part of this
community. The staffwent over and beyond to guide and support us in clear and consistent
ways. Littledid we know that as parents,we would be welcomed with the same levelof aloha
and high expectation of dedication and involvement. From the very firstday, we feltat ease
knowing where our daughter was learning.We were welcomed with open arms and open
hearts.Never have Iexperienced such authentic aloha and dedication to language, cultureand
the futuregenerations.
Iam a ASL interpreterinthe education setting,and have worked ina varietyof school settings.
None were satisfactoryto send my one and only daughter, untilwe found Ke Kula o'Pi'ilani.
Hearing theirstory of humble beginnings, and witnessing the well rounded, kind and intelligent
graduates, inspiredus to look towards the futureforour daughter at Ke Kula'o Pi'ilani.Through
our time at the school Ilearned about, ‘lao,extensively,Maniania/ Kepaniwai Park as a historic
site.We learned a chant that insummary praised and honored the place and requested a
shield of education as protection.We have received exactly that. This school upliftsthe
community, specificallythe dedicated Hawaiians we have had the honor of knowing. Ihave
never met a harder working more dedicated staffand community. They greet us dailywith
aloha and reassurance, each person from head of the school to officestaff,to teachers that
were not even my daughter's teacher,made effortsto communicate and meet our daughters
individualneeds. They come together on weekends, holidays,afterschool hours and before
the sun risesto take care of the space, fullof gratitudefortheirsacred spaces and theirsacred
responsibilitythey have to the childrenof theircommunity and school grounds.
My hope isthat without a doubt, the council can see the need forthisprivateHawaiian
Immersion school to be set center stage at one of the most sacred and historiclocationsin
Maui, in perpetuity.The classrooms and space do need substantial updates and work. Iam in
100 % support, that they receiveallthe funds and support they need to reach theirfullest
potentialas a school.
Ifeel stronglythat the childrenand parents of thiscommunity willthriveknowing they have a
school to call“home”. A place to feelsafe,contributeto,feelunited and a drivingpurpose. We
gather as familiesto care forthe grounds now, Ican only imagine how much more effortand
long term improvements willunfold as thiscommunity takes on the responsibilityto care for
the space theirchildrenlearn and grow every day. Isee the the longterm, permanent
stewardship of the space to be in no betterhands then the Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani.Istand behind
them. Ispeak with my actions,by sending my childhere with confidence thatshe isthe best
place possible to learnlanguage and cultureof the land she was born, as well as the
foundational values of culture,compassion, connection to place and accountability.Isaw my
daughter thrivein thisenvironment. Her language growth, her mathematics skills,her social
skills,her hula and chanting, and most importantlyher levelof happiness was obvious this
year.We are dedicated to keeping her inthiscommunity and Ican only hope, thatthe staffof
the school, the community, and the familiesfeelthey have a space to belong and thattheir
vision grows to fruition.
Respectfully,AbigailLlewellyn
Count^£IeH<
Cummins Mahoe <68crusader@gmail.com>
Friday,August 5,2022 9:56 AM
County Clerk
Bill 110
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from 68crusader@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmembers,
Although Iam always veteran-centric,Iam OPPOSED to proposed Bill110. Itisdisadvantageous to the veterans and I
see itcostingveterans more inthe long run. Itisunderstandable to provide propertytax reliefto the 100% ers. Iwould
prefer a benefitthat would serve allveterans likeno vehicle registrationfee firstvehicle.
Cummins K. Mahoe III
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
Suzette Marlowe <suzettemarlowe@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 11:27AM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Importance: High
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom suzettemarlowe@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha kakou to the County CouncilofMaui, gatheredhere today to consider this
amendment forFiscalYear 2023 County ofMaui Budget.
I appreciatethisopportunityto support your work as Council in determining the
importance of our children'seducation and culturalenrichment
upon the futureof our island.
My name isGloriaMarlowe, a residenton Maui forthe pastfiftyyears,currentlylivingin
upcountry Kula.In the past twenty-two years,Ihave made a personal commitment to
support and perpetuatethe Hawaiian Culturethrough my studiesof ‘oleloHawaifi,the
hana no‘eau traditionalcrafts,through
the study and performance oftraditionalhula,oliand mele, and the performance of
Hawaiian music in an ‘ukuleleband formany years.Through the past twelveyears,Ihave
been a member of Halau Na Hanona Kulike O Pi‘ilani,under the directionof Kumu
Kapono‘ai Molitau. As a halau haumana,
I have spent time atthe facilitiesofKe Kula O Pifilaniin practiceand preparationfor
culturalevents,sometimes includingmembers ofthestaff,as well as studentsof KKOP
who arealsostudentsinour Halau Na Hanona. The settingat Tao isconducive to Native
Hawaiian ceremony, knowledge-seekingand natureitself.
I feeldeeply the importance of our islandkeikistartingearlyin the
education and participationoftheirculture.And I am proud of the
way that
Ke Kula O Pi‘ilanihas been a brilliantexpressionof thatcommitment in the yearsthat
they have been locatedinthe Tao Valleyatthewonderfulfacilitiesof the
formerHawaii Nature Center,and previously,the dao Lodge. That
commitment to the curriculaalsoreflectsthe guiding principlesof
aloha and aloha ‘aina,goodcitizenshipandbuildingofhealthyrelationshipswith
one another,with family,and with the community.
This isa requestforyour considerationto authorizetherevolvingfunds allocatec.
forartsand culturetopurchasetheirexistingcampus sitefrom the
Hawai‘i Nature Center and transferthe stewardshipto Ke Kula ‘o
Pi‘ilani.With eitherownership thereoforalong-termleaseof50-plusyears.
Thiswould securecontinuityand longevityforthe schoohs program
in ‘lao.Ibelievethey are ready to be the stewards of thissacred anc.
specialplaceand thatwould influencethe younger generations to
alsohave a deep relationshipwith thislane..
Please considerthe importance of lettingKe Kula O Pidlanibe
assured a continued and permanent home in ‘laoand a continued
native Hawaiian presence in the valleyas an ‘ainabase forthe
benefitof our community.
Thank you foryour time and your important serviceto the lifeof
our island,
Warm aloha,
Gloria Marlowe
00
O “Ti
C ’’I
73
m
50Hm
cn
ot
m
oo 3 <--n
mn
73X
:Km
m
o
fvJ
2
RECEIVED
Aloha mai kakou,
Z0?2AUG-4 AH » 13
My name isLahela Mata-Goldman and I am thethirdgradeteacheratKe Kula ‘O
Pihlani.I have been working atKe Kula ‘oPihlaniforabouttwoyearsnOTT; r-oi/
loved being inthe roleof someone who has the abilityto teachthe futui'egenerationsme
importance of‘aina-basedlearningand the importanceof being connected to theplace
thatcan providethem ancestralknowledge which willthen help them be successfulin
their future.
F THE
I was born and raisedin Wailuku and currentlyresiderightnext in Waiehu. I am
cun'entlygoing to school forElementary Education with a minor inHawaiian Studiesso I
am blessedtobe given the opportunityto educateour up and coming keiki.
I am writinginsupportof Ke Kula ‘oPi‘ilani,insupportof theacquisitionof land
atManianiaTao,and insupportofa relationshipbetweenthe County of Maui and Ke
Kula 'oPihlaniinregardsto theselands.I fullysupporttheallocationof funds to
purchase thisland from the Hawaii Nature Center on behalfof Ke Kula ‘o Pi’ilani.
Mahalo,
Lahela Mata-Goldmann
County Clerk
RCClIVCD
mi AUG-il PHB: 50
From:
Sent:
Rebecca Rhapsody <becca.rhapsody@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 12:13 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.Sinenci;;Yuj<tei^iwimi^;^eIv
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson COUNTY PI
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN'ORDINANCr
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom becca.rhapsody@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Kakou,
This isa writtentestimony to the Maui County Councilin support of Letterof Support Written Testimony for Land
Acquisition BILL NO. 123
I am a mother,educator,and the spouse of a farmer.I was born and raisedon the islandof Maui, althoughboth
of my parentsareoriginallyfrom theEastCoastand from European and JewishDiasporaorigins.In recent
yearsI'vehad thegreatfortunetobe partoftheKe Kula ‘oPihlani‘ohana.My childisstilltoo young to take
classesthere,butmyselfand my husband,who works ata kalo farm affiliatedwith the school,were invitedto
take‘oleloclassesaswellasbuilda papa ku‘i'aiwith thefamiliesof Ke Kula ‘o Pi‘ilani.
As someone who isfrom Hawaii butnotancestrallyfrom Hawaii nor Hawaiian, I particularlyappreciatethe
inclusivenessof alltyesof ancestrythatI'vefound atKe Kula ‘o Piilani.From my interactionswith this
program, Ihave found more ways tocontributeto my homeland. They graciouslyhave givenme and othersa
way tofeelbelongingand understandthekuleanathatcomes with livinghere.
Growing up on Maui, IthoughtIwanted toleaveand be a partof themainstream big citiesI saw inthemovies.
When Idideventuallyhave theopportunityto leaveand liveoutsideof HawaiT, by leaving,I learnedhow
importantMaui is.Maui trulyisunlikeany otherplace.1 believethisrichnesscomes from the Hawaiian
culture,aloha culture,and the ‘ainaof theseislands.I'vecome back to Maui to servemy community and to
raisemy children.Ithinkprograms likeKe Kula ‘oPiTlanicreateyoung citizensready to serveour islandsand
the world. I believe the Hawaiian cultural elements of theirprograms offerthetypesof perspectivesand skills
thatwe allneed to liveinharmony with one anotherand our one preciousplanet.
I am infirmsupportof theMaui County Councilauthorizingup to $l,500,00.ooforthe acquisitionof the land,
buildings,and structuresassociatedwith TMK No. (2)3-3-003-006 and TMK No. (2)3-3-003-008 locatedat
875 Tao ValleyRoad,Wailuku,Maui,Hawai‘1from theHawaii Nature Center on behalfof Ke Kula ‘o Piilani
I firmlysupportthisprogram havinga continuedpresencein‘TaoValley.Inmy opinion,theKe Kula ‘oPi‘ilani
‘ohanagraciouslyupholds,strengthensand teachesHawaiian language,culture,and perspectivewhile being
inclusiveand perpetuatingalohatoall.The culturaland academic programs of thisschoolarea blessingto our
island.Pleaseconsidergivingthem thischance
Mahalo piha
Rebecca McLean
1
Count^^IeH<
Diana Naihe <dn4@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 10:28 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;KeaniN.Rawlins;TamaraA.Paltin;Shane^.fSp^(]J:£Y0!:|tei‘^p^gnura;Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson; K^^^^Tp'ffnQLERKWRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent: mi AUG-4 AH fr 12
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom dn4@hawaii.edu.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha mai kakou to The Maui County Council
My name isDiana Pohaikealoha Naihe, also known as Pohaikealoha. Iam born and raised in Hana, Maui, iam a proud
mother of 3 boys that all'oleloHawai'i.The language has become the core foundation of my family and of who are
today. Iam also now a teacher at Ke Kula Kaiapuni 'o Hana.
My firstteachingexperiencecame from Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilani,and Iwould not be on the path of education ifitwasn't formy
experience there. Allmy life,Inever knew what 1wanted to be, but Iknew I'vealways wanted to give back to my
community. After my firstweek of volunteeringwith Kekai Robinson and being around the culture-based,Hawaiian
Language environment inthe beautifulvalley'sof our ali'i,Ifound a new and profound love ingivingto the future
generation,through educating our keiki.Isoon became a substituteteacher,then teacher'sassistant,to teaching
makau'olelo and eventuallyhaving a classof my own. Ileftto finishmy degree and an opportunity came for me to
return home. Iam now givingback to my community as Ihave always wanted to,and Ihave took what I'velearned from
Ke Kula 'o Pi'ilanito Hana.
There's a lotof trustinthe program, and you can trustthatthey willdo rightwith this'aina,to continuethe culture,and
preserve the language.You can trustthe partnershipthat they bring,and how itwillhelp these studentsfindtheirnew
and profound love,to followtheirpassion,and have aloha forwhat they do, as Idid.1am writingthisletterto you,
because Isupport the purchase and acquisitionof the former 'TaoLodge atManiania,mauka ofKepaniwaiPark,from its
current owners on behalfof the community, specificallyto provide a home for Ke Kulam 'o Pi'ilani.
Me ke aloha.
Pohaikealoha Naihe
1
RECEIVED
Wl AUG AH & 12Aloha County of Maui Counsel
'vrFIGE OF THE
1,Julie Marie Niem, and keikiare part of the Ghana ofKe Kulao CLERK
am not born of these islands however, appreciate and embrace the history,
recent and ancient of these lands. The ike (knowledge) of the Hawaiian
culture isof ultimateimportance to me and my family.
To nurture and perpetuate thisinformation ina way of livingnow and for
the future isnot only essentialfor the people of thisland but the entire
planet. 1am Caucasian and part Native Indian and have respected the
similaritiesin understanding the world inwhich we live.
These teachings should be shared and cultivatedas long as we are able to
access thisinformation.Ke Kula o Piifanibeing located in lao Valleyisone
of the most important places for completely encompassing the potential
and abilityto continue thiseducation.
We can always learnthings anywhere although,thisschool ishands on
with allthe elements of education and involvement with nature, lao Valley
holds an abundance of wisdom for our children and Ghana to learn from.
Iam infullsupport of Ke Kula o Piilanito remain inthislocationforthe
best outcome of Hawaiian culture and Native Intelligence.
Mahalo Nui foryour time and understanding inour aloha forthisprogram
being here.
Julie, Chad, Evan, and Pohaku
Count^^leH<
"TrrUTTTlD"
m AUG -i) AH 8: 12
Maile Noneza <c_noneza@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 11:19 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTENTESTIMONYTO SUPPORT BILLNO. 123,A BILLC^SHiftJl^’KDlMAB^K
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, EC
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
OFFICE GF THE
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom c_noneza@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Welina me ke aloha nui Maui County Council,
1am the chairperson of a Hanona, a small non-profitlocated inWailuku here on Maui. Our
mission is to elevate Native Hawaiian wisdom and intellect by providingculturallearning
opportunitiesfor our communities to perpetuate Native Hawaiian traditionalpracticeswhile
respectingthe integrityof how indigenous knowledge istaught and learned.
Hanona fullySUPPORTS BillNo. 123 and Ke Kula 'o PiTlani(KKOP). The caliberof cultural
educators at KKOP are outstanding.Their curriculum prioritizesHawaiian Language, culture,
historyand valueswhich iskey to the perpetuationof our culture.Hanona has the honor and
pleasure of working with KKOP indevelopment of curriculumfor our current apprentice
projectwhich provides intense traditionalapprentice traininginvolvingintergenerational
interactionsbetween masters, instructors,and students. Itsfocus istrainingthe next
generation of culturalpractitionersinthe areas of traditionalhale building,dry stack masonry,
land steward practices,archaeology and Hawaiian prayersand protocols.
Being a Generation X born, with roots here on Maui, the revivalof the Hawaiian Language was
pivotalinthe Hawaiian Renaissance. The language has been revivedthrough the diligenceof
the (now) educators at KKOP and itthrivesthrough curriculums they have developed and
teach. KKOP's ishelping to prepare for that next step,which is"normalizing"traditional
practicesfor allages, especiallyour keiki.
KKOP's siteat the Hawaii Nature Center isthe perfectvenue for trainingand growing Maui's
next generation. This willbenefit our native Hawaiian childrenand familiesof Na Wai 'Eha and
the Maui Community at large.
As chairof Hanona and member of the Maul community, please APPROVE BillNo. 123.
Ke aloha nui a me ka mahalo piha ia'oukou,
Carmela Noneza
Chairperson, HANONA
SI NA P-9UMW
J .»I 'I0 il I’' «
2
Count^CleH< n
KaleilaniOlsen <imtrying1moretime@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 5:33AM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.Sin^|^j^i|ggS|WgknYrjajj|elly
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnson COUNTY CLERK
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ofclNANCt*^
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent: 2827AUG AH » 13
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom imtrying1moretime@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council Members of Maui County,
My name isKaleilaniOlsen and Igrew up inthe town of Wailuku. Iam writingto you in
support of Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniand BILL NO. 123.
Mahalo,
Kaleilani Olsen
1
Count^^Clerk
From;
Sent:
DanielOrnellas<daniel.l.ornellas(5)gmail.com>
Friday,August 5,2022 10:57AM
County Clerk
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
To:
Subject:
I You don’toftengetemailfrom daniel.l.ornellas(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council,
Isupport the acquisitionof the land and facilitiesowned by Hawaii Nature Center located adjacent to County Owned
Kepaniwai Park in lao Valley. These lands are in one of the most historicallysignificantand sacred areas of Maui
Island.The area deserves to be maintained inperpetuityforthe benefitof currentand futuregenerations.Ifully
support the initiativeto secure these premises inorder to expand opportunities to educate our community about the
importance of land and water stewardship and traditionaland customary practicesthat make Maui no ka oi.
Daniel Ornellas
128 Kaulana Na Pua Circle
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 264-0783
1
RECEIVED
im AUG -4 AH & <10
Kimokeo Foundation
95MahalaniSt., Ste. #12
Wailuku, Hawai'i 96793
(808) 446-3030
www.kimokeofoundation.org
info@kimokeofoundation.org
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
August4,2022
MauiCountyCouncil
200 S.HighSt.
Wailuku,Hawai'i96793
RE: WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123,A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE
FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE
REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND - KE KULA ‘0 PIIU^NI,'lAO,MAUI, HAWAII
AlohaMaulCountyCouncilmemberS:
On behalfoftheKimokeoFoundation,a Maui non-profit501(c)(3)organization,we voiceourstrongsupportforBillNo.123 tosupport
fundswhichwillenableKe Kula‘oPi'ilanitopurchasepropertyin'taoValley,
Founded in2015,themissionofthe Kimokeo Foundationistopreserveand perpetuatetheNativeHawaiianculture,itstraditions,
practicesand language,Maui’senvironmentand community’shealththrougheducationalprogramswhichbenefitthepeopleofHawai'i.
In2019,we enteredintoa partnershipwithKe Kula'oPi'ilanitoassistthemwithpurchasinglandsothattheirschool’spropertywould
be secured.We didso becausewe understoodthattheywere underan annualleasewiththeHawai'iNatureCenterandthatthis
jeopardizedtheirschoolevery10-12 months.We supportedthemfinanciallywithassistancewiththeirmonthlyrent,education
materialsand projectsand alsoupgradestothepropertytoensurethatitwas a safeplacetobe.We heldan aggressivecampaignto
raisethefundstopurchasethepropertyinWailukubutunfortunately,itwas soldbeforewe couldraisethefullamount.
We do notwanttoseethishappenagain.Knowingthatthelandisup forsaledirectlythreatenstheschooland more importantly,the
potentialthatthestudentswho attendtheschoolcan have iftheyhave a securedschoolenvironment.
Pleasejoinus insupportingKe Kula'oPi'ilaniandpassBill123so thattheycanhavea securedlocationwherethenextgenerationof
nativespeakerscan thrive.
Mahalonui,
J' iman
E)«cbtiveDirector
The mission of Kimokeo Foundation isto preserve and perpetuate theNativeHawaiian culture,itstraditions,practicesand language,
Maui's environment and community's health through educationalprograms which benefitthepeople of Hawai'i.
2022 Board of Directors:PresidentKimokeo Kapahulehua, Vice PresidentNapua Aloy,TreasurerMichael Phillips
Secretary Nancy La Joy,DirectorNamomi McCorriston, and Hawaiian CulturalAdvisorKahu Lyons Naone
RFCEiVEDCount^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Sam Park <kulakauka7@gmail.com>
Thursday,August 4,2022 8:20 PM
County Clerk
Testimony re Bill110 {2022)
mi AUG-5 W 7:«l‘l
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftenget email from kulakauka7@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM C.S.PARK ON Bill110, CDl
Iam a retiredArmy veteran considered disabledby the Department of Veterans Affairs.Ihave served two terms on
the Governor's Advisory Board on Veterans Affairs.Ialso served as the Veterans Program Directorfor the Native
Hawaiian Health Systems.
Iam submitting testimony on Bill110, CDl as an individual.1do not support thisBillin itscurrent form. The proposed
Billwould change the currentbenefitsforour veterans in a way that makes itmore difficultfinanciallyfor our disabled
veterans,even though adding a greater number of veterans and the unmarried spouses.
Aloha,
William C.S.Park
Retired Master Sergeant
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Andrew Perry<awperry13@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 8:52 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;KeaniN.Rawlins;TamaraA.Paltin;Shai^^^Sm^DciiYukiJ^^gimura;Kelly
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnsonp-Litju-?YPIPR ^WRITTENTESTIMONYTO SUPPORTBILLNO.123,VfelrFORAlWRbff^ANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
mi AUG -4 AH 8: 11
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom awperryl3@gmaii.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council,
As a Pacific Islander born in the Northern Marianas and raisedhere in Kiheialong with my three siblings.I’vebeen very
fortunateto have spentso much time inTao asa childand now gettingthe opportunity to enrollmy son intoKe Kula '0
Pi'ilaniissomething Ifeelvery gratefulfor.Coming from a culturewith strong values of respect,caringfor others and
takingcare of the land Ifeelthat having my childenrolledat Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniwillstrengthenthese in him.
By grantingstewardship to Ke Kula '0 Pi’ilaniIbelievethat they willcontinue to give our keikithe eyes to see the land
through our Hawaiian culture,the ears to listento our eldersand the hearts to discernthe many choicesto be made
in their future.
Ihumbly requestthatyou grantthem stewardship.
Mahalo foryourtime and consideration,
Andrew Perry
808.268.6385
1
W w
Ka ‘Ghana Poepoe-Criste
% Miki’alaK. Poepoe
163 Eiilani St.
Makawao, HI 96768
mi AUG-4 AH 8=12
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
August 04, 2022
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku. HI 96793
Aloha Members of the Maui County Council,
Iam writingthisletterin support of passing BillNo. 123 which willhelp ensure
that beloved Ke Kula ‘O Pi'ilaniwillhave a permanent home insacred ‘Tao
Valley,a most appropriate culturalspace for haumana to learn and thrive.
We are the Poepoe-Criste 'Ghana, born and raised here on Maui. We are
makua to 3 keiki- Naupaka, Kamalani and Keakanui. As Hawaiians raised in
households affected by the disconnect of generations past, the Tin! desire,
and inherent pullto connect back to our roots iswhy the youngest of our keiki,
Keakanui, willbe attending hissecond year at Ke Kula ‘O Pi'ilani.
Ke Kula ‘O Pi'ilaniistrulya Hawaiian Language and Hawaiian Culture
immersion school. Haumana of this wonderful school are not only learning
'Olelo Hawai'i,they are also learning what itisto be a Hawaiian. And to have
that confidence and solidfoundation in knowing who you are. as well as who
and where you come from ispriceless.
I humbly ask for your kokua to pass BillNo. 123. That Ke Kula 'O Pi'ilanimay
continue to revive and build this firm foundation of ‘ike kupuna for our
community in thisspecial place for generations to come.
Mahalo Council Members for the opportunity to share our support of Ke Kula
‘O Pi'ilani and Bill No. 123.
Me ka ‘oia'i'o,
Miki'ala Poepoe. Makua ‘o Keakanui Criste
RECEIVED
Ke aloha nui ia kakou.
im AUG -4 AH 8= 12
My name isLeimana Pu‘u and I am the Po'o Kumu (Head Teacher) at Ke Kula *o Pi'ilani.I have
been working as a teacherat Ke Kula ‘o Pi'ilaniforabout2 Yiyearsnow andaltlQti'ghil3iEvdBFTHE
thought 1would be a teacher,Ifindmyself beingdrawn deeperintotheteaching^vQU&iiEYhf'LERK
abilitytoteachour futuregenerationsancestralknowledge due tothe locationthatareableto be
indaily.1 was born and raisedinWailuku and aftercompletingmy collegecareer,Iwas blessed
to be able to work and serve the children and families of my home community viaKe Kula ‘o
PiTlani.This has made allmy hard work and dedicationto my educationworthwhile.The
opportunityto get educated and returnhome to servemy community has always been the
dream's of my kupuna. My responsibilitytomy community and home landshave always been a
priorityand goalwhilegrowing up.
1am writinginsupportof Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani,theacquisitionoflandinTao,aswellasthe
relationshipthatwillbe createdand nurturedbetween the County of Maui and Ke Kula ‘o
PiMlani due to thisland.I believe that ‘Tao isa key aspectinhelpingtorevivethelanguageand
culture that has once thrived on these lands while alsoattemptingtore-buildand strengthening
our community. With thatbeing said,!fullysupportthe allocationof fundsto purchasethisland
from the Hawaii Nature Center on behalf of Ke Kula ‘o PiTlani.
Mahalo,
Leimana Pu‘u
Count^£ler1c rTFT v'cDt ^
' I
Ellenn K. Raiser <ekraiser@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, August 4, 2022 9;57 AM
County Clerk
BillNo 123
From:
Sent:
m AUG -4 AN 10 23To:
Subject:
OFFIGE OF THE
COUNtY CLERK
You don'toftenget email from ekraiser@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Kakou, Members of Maui County Council
My name isEllenKahanu Raiser.Ihave been a resident of Maui for40 years .1worked as an RN inthe OR at Maui
Memorial Medical Center untilmy retirementin2009.
As a kupuna, Ilivedinan era inwhich being Hawaiian wasn't encouraged. We heard the Hawaiian language spoken in
hushed tone, behind closeddoors and never ever inpublic.My use of the language was limitedto the hymns and songs
that we sang.We were encouraged to be "American".Ilooked Hawaiian but didn'tfeellikeone.
Aftermy retirement,Ibecame a member of Na Hanona Kulike0 Pi'ilani.Under the guidance of Na Kumu Kaponoa'i
Molitau and SissyLake Farm, Ifound my Hawaiian identityburied under the labelof RN. Iwas able to expand on my
knowledge of my Hawaiian culture,traditionsand values.Iwant better forthe keikiof today.
Itwas through thishalau that Ibecame a strong supporter of Ke Kula 0 Pi'ilani.Iwas impressed with theircurriculum,
the immersion of Hawaiian in all activities and the use of Hawaiian core values in their interaction with one another.
Most important isthe need for a healthy,nurturingand secure environment for learning.The present locationfor Ke
Kula 0 Pi'ilaniisa perfectplace.Inthe calmness of lao,theirminds can focus on the task of learningabout themselves,
theircultureand the world around them. They willbe stewards of the aina,be a continued Hawaiian presence in the
valley,to malama aina and care forthe land and to have a strong identityabout being Hawaiian.
Isupport BillNo 123 because itwillprovide a permanent home for Ke Kula 0 Pi'ilani.The purchase of thisproperty will
offersecurityto the staff,studentsand parents.Itwillrelievethe fearof worrying whether or not they willhave a place
to study each school year. Ibelievethat our community willbenefitfrom the education the keikireceivefrom Ke Kula 0
Pi'ilani.
Mahalo to the county councilmembers forconsideringthisbilland itseffecton the Maui community.
Ellen Kahanu Raiser
1
Halau Ke‘alaokamaile RECEIVED
8= 130
Aloha Mai e Na Moho o Ke Kalana o Maui,
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
We are writingto you instrong support of the purchase of the Hawaii Nature Center by the
County ofMaui followedby the transferofstewardship to Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani.We are Keali'i
Reichel and Henohea Kane, na Kumu Hula of Maui based halau, Halau Ke'alaokamaile.
In previous years we were both teachers at Punana Leo o Maui, Maui's firstHawaiian
language medium pre-school.Kealiiwas a kumu at the inception of the school followed by
Henohea nearly20 years later.We both understand the tremendous impact that a
community could potentiallyhave on culturallygrounded organizations. Through this
purchase, Maui County could once again be a brilliantexample of the promotion of
Hawaiian language and culturesimilarto the support thatyou have so graciouslybestowed
upon our halau which isto be builtin Pi’iholoas well as the construction of Halau of 'Oiwi
Arts.
Through our experiences with Punana Leo and as Kumu Hula, we understand firsthandthe
daunting task in tryingto obtain a space inwhich cultureand language can thrive.The
County of Maui could help alleviatethatfor Ke Kula 'o PiTlaniso thatthey can channel their
energiesand aloha intoprovidingthe besteducationalexperience possibleforour keiki.
Ke Kula ‘oPiTlanihas thus farproduced brilliantkeikiand strong families.They have
supported a community through the pandemic by becoming an approved vaccinationsite
on severaloccasions.They continue to support other organizationsthrough their
charitablenature and the understanding of the rolethatthey play within our community.
It is for all of these reasons and more that we are in strong support of BILL NO. 123 as well
as your assistanceof Ke Kula 'oPi'ilaniand our community by purchasing the Hawai'i
Nature CenterlocatedinTao and transferstewardshipto the school fora betterand
brighter Maui.
Na maua no me ke aloha a me ka ha'aha'a.
/^<UL&^ /&(UcA<l£ £.
KealiM Reichel
Ha Kumu Hula
Halau Ke 'alaokamoHe
henoheak@gmail.com- (808) 357-7494
Henohea Kaneand
Count^CleH< 'RECSiV£t>
Nalu Robinson <kumu_nalu@kekulaopiilani.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 4:30 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M.SineRc^|A^l^^S^^jbTityrp|^llyKing;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent: i!eZ2AUG -4 AH 8: 11
To:
Cc:
BOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kumu_nalu@kekulaopiilani.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha e na kanaka 'o Maui County Counsil.
My name isNalu KaleilaniPiliRobinson, and Iam a teacher here at Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilani.My familyand Iare from Waiehu,
Maui. Our family has,in many shapes and forms, been caretakersof laoValleyformany generations.My great
grandfather,Charles Keau, was the caretakerfor Kepaniwai Park formany years.My mother isKahu Kekai Robinson who
is now the Po'o Kula of Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilani.And Ihave been a teacher at thisschool for6 years now. IBelievewith allmy
being that there isno betterchoice than to have Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilanibe the stewards of thisplace.Our program allowsthe
childrenof Maui to learnand grow ina way thatisnot availableelsewhere,and havingthisplaceiscrucialto our
success, and the success of our future generations. Should we become the caretakersof thisplaceitwould allow us to
better serve our childrenthrough education.There are much needed safetyand qualityof lifeimprovements that we
are currentlyunable to make due to us not being the owners. With your supportwe willbe ableto make these
improvements and so much more. Together we can help to grow strong,intelligentHawaiian people.Thank you forall
that you do for Maui, and Ihope you willfinditinyour heartsto help us,help Hawai'i'sfuture.
Me ke aloha, Nalu.
[\|nluKoh inson,
[<Cunujf^npa‘FLahi. IC^Ia fi'ilnni
Ke Kula 'oPi'ilani,Independent Hawaiian Immersion Elementary School,Non-Profit501(c)(3)
875 ‘TaoValleyRoad, Wailuku,HI 96793
PO Box 1934, Wailuku, HI 96793
Office;(808)214-5006 |admin@kekulaoDiilani.com
Cell:(808)276-2733 jkahu kekai@kekulaoDiilani.com
Website: www.kekulaoDiilani.com
The content of this email is confidential and intended forthe recipient(s)specifiedinmessage only.Itisstrictlyforbiddento share any
part of thismessage with any thirdpartywithout a writtenconsent ofthe sender.Ifyou receivedthismessage by mistake,pleasereply
to thismessage and followwith itsdeletion,so thatwe can ensure such a mistakedoes notoccur inthefuture.For more information
on enrollment,employment, donations,and volunteeropportunities,visitour websiteatwww.kekulaoDiilani.cQm.E ola!
1
CountyCIeiJ<
RECEIVEDPaul Robinson <imua2377@gmail.com>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 10:54 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson; KekaiR^jn^icjrCgQp THE
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
From:
Sent:
21IZ?AUG-iiAH & 12To:
Cc:
Subject:
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
[Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget email from imua2377@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
at https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha County Council,
My name isPaul Robinson and lam writingto you to express my extreme support of thisbilland of the land acquisition
for Ke Kula o Pi'ilani.Iwas born and raised in Wailuku and stillresidethere.I'm a practitionerof oliand hula under Kumu
Kapono'ai Molitau of Na Hanona Kulikeo Pi'ilani.Iam happilymarried to Kekai Robinson, Pouhana of Ke Kula o Pi'ilani
and we have raisedthree boys here.
Kekai practicallygrew up in Kepaniwai since her Grandpa CharlieKeau took care of the park as a County Parks
employee. She has a deep loveand connection forthis'ainabecause of him and wants nothingbut the bestforthat
space. Her love forthe Hawaiian language, arts,and cultureisevident ifyou've ever talkedto her.She instillsthissame
love and passion,in allthe keikithat come through Ke Kula o Pi'ilani.Ican'tthinkof a bettersteward of Kepaniwai,
Maniania, than Ke Kula o Pi'ilani.
But,thisschool needs your help to callManiania a permanent home, to learnthose thingsthatthe schoolteaches.To
have a place forthe keikito learnHawaiian thingsina Hawaiian space iskey to the school'seducationalgoals.Maniania
isa specialplace that holds a lotof culturalsignificance,mana and historythatneeds to be inthe hands of peoplewho
know how to champion and protect it.Ke Kula o Pi'ilaniisthe rightorganizationto be inthatspace.So pleasesupport
thisbillnot only forthe keiki,forthe aina,forthe culture& language, but because it'sthe rightthingto do.
Mahalo a nui,
Paul Robinson
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
mi WJG-5 HI 8=19Maui_County Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:04AM
louiserockett@aol.com;County Clerk
Maui_County Council_mailbox
FW: SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL iNVESTIGATI
APPROVALS
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
gqunty clerkON INTO GREG BROWN'S BOGUS
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Louise,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicountv.us as per the attached 8/5/22 Council Agenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
From: louiserockett@aol.com <louiserockett@aol.com>
Sent: Thursday, August 04, 2022 8:31 PM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject: SUPPORTING THE COUNCIL INVESTIGATION INTO GREG BROWN'S BOGUS APPROVALS
You don’toften get email from louiserockettOaol.com.Learn why thisisimportant
Iam insupport of CR22-73.
Tamara Paltin'sCommittee should immediately proceed to launch a formal investigationof
Planning and PublicWorks' approvals of Greg Brown’s structureinNapili.
The NapiliBay CivicImprovement Districtwas writtento protectthistreasured place forour mo'opuna and generations
beyond.
Mahalo forhelpingus to make thisright.
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
ChrisSalem <chrissalem8@yahoo.com>
Friday,August 5,2022 8:54AM
fryrchris@aol.com
Joshua Downer; Brad Salter;Samuel Small;Kanamu Balinbin;Dan Williams - One Napili
Way; jomoney1947@gmail.com; Mike J.Molina;Ana L.Lillis;Laura L McDowell; County
Clerk;Maui_County Council_mailbox
Written Testimony - DirectorMclean Unclean Hands
Correspondence from PlanningDirector05-23-2022.pdf
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
First
Both the Mayor and the Planning Director,who's signaturesare on thisofficialdocument submitted in
testimony, are named to Defendant to a lawsuit.
Corporation Counsel DirectorLutey, issubjectto a Board of Ethics complaint,iscopied on
the document. One would assume Corporation Counsel is
defending these officialconclusions by the Director,which were not submitted forpublic
review with the agenda. Sunshine law violationsmay now come
intoplay. These actors must be silenced from thisday forward unless they are sworn
under oath.
Second
The Planning Directorcreated the "power point"document as a publicofficial,not a private
citizen.She clearlydid so atthe directionor inconsultationwith the
Mayor and Corporation Counsel. She acknowledges thatshe was not asked forher review or
opinionsany longer,yet she insistson tryingto sellher position
which completely conflictwith her priorrepresentationsto thisbody. She admitted she
would not have issued the initialSMA Permit exemption. She admits
the community was correct.Unfortunatly,the harm she has caused inher afterthe fact
admissions are widespread.
This Council needs to recognize a complete reporton thisviolationswas submitted tothe Mayor,
Chief of Staff,Corporation Counsel, and the Planning Director
by a staffmember ofthe officeof the Mayor. The reportwas inresponse to lettersto the Mayor and
Planning Directorby the President of the NapiliBay Foundation,
Pat Linguistinearly2021. No response by employers of allegedviolationsor ordinance isa violation
of State employment laws. How would your staffrespond ifthey
submitted a reportto the Administration and no response was provided?
This process willinsurethattype of selectiveenforcement and unethicalconduct by the
administrationand corporationcounsel does not continue.
Third
To a certaindegree, we thank DirectorMclean from submittingher personalconclusions.They lay
the foundation forthe investigationto prove how dishonest
and deceptive her conflictedpersonal conclusions are.
1
Fourth
This Council must establishby rulethatthe Administration must siton the sidelinesunless they are
asked to play.
Respectfully;
Christopher Salem
On Friday,August 5, 2022 at 06:08:44 AM HST, fryrchris@aol.com<fryrchris@aol.com> wrote:
Please respond, inwriting,as conciselyas possibleto the most importantdiscrepancies by Mclean in
her answers which mislead the County.
2
MICHAF.I. P. VICTORINO
Mavor
MICHEI.E CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. AICP
Directin'
JORDAN E. HAR T
Deputy Director DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING
COUNTY OF MAUI
ONE MAIN PLAZA
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 315
WAILUKU. MAUI. HAWAII 96793 O
73OO
~r\ mn
May 23, 2022 o■) o
● ● I
'I
● I \
--1 m
Honorable Michael Viclorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
OAPPROV NSMITTAl> : *
v-n
5/?For Transmittal to: D
Honorable Michael J. Molina, Chair
Government Relations,Ethicsand Transparency Committee
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Molina,
CONSTRUCTION ON LOWER HONOAPIILANI ROAD (NAPIU)
(GREAT-36)
SUBJECT:
in responsetoyour May 18,2022 letterrelatingto inquiriesreceivedfrom thepublicabout
thehome beingconstructedat5385 Lower HonoapiilaniRoad (TMK 4-3-002:057),pleaseconsider
the following:
The PlanningDepartment (Department)did not takesetbackmeasurements at any
site visit.
When conducting Special Management Area (SMA) review, the Department
considerstsunami inundationzones or coastalhigh hazard areas(floodzones V and VE),
which arcregulatedunderChapter 19.62,Maui County Code (MCC).
2.
Since theadoptionof Ordinance No. 5233, MCC Section19.60.030does not allow
a 45-foot tailstructurein the Napili Bay Civic Improvement District(NBCID), where
buildingheightsare limitedto two storiesand 30 feetinheight.MCC Section19.14.050
allows a 45-foot tallstructurein the FIM Hotel District,which providesa maximum building
height of 90 feet,and the FI-2 Hotel Districtand the Hotel District,which providea
maximum buildingheightof 100 feet,but not intheH-1 FlotelDistrict,which limitsbuilding
heightsto 35 feet.
3.
MAIN LINE (808) 270-7735
CURRENT DIVISION (808) 270-8205 / LONG RANGE DIVISION (808)270-7214/ ZONING DIVISION (808)270-7253
FionorableMichael P.Victorino,Mayor
For Transmittal to;
Honorable Michael J.Molina, Chair
May 23,2022
Page 2
4. The Department didnot see a basistoquestionthevaluationprovidedon the after-
the-factSMA assessment applicationforthe wall,as the applicationwas submittedby a
licensedcontractor,and did not consultwith the Department of Public Works. (The
Department requestedthe documents thatwere quoted and referencedin thisquestionbut
we didnotreceivethem;however,we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
The referencedbuildingpermit is for the home ($2,000,000valuation)and the
referencedSMA assessmentapplicationisforthewall($15,000valuation).The valuation
of a projectisrelevantwhen theprojectisa “development”and isnot exempt from having
to obtaina SMA permit.
5.
When reviewinga SMA assessmentapplication,theDepartmentappliesthe definitionsfrom
Section205A-22, Hawaii RevisedStatutes(HRS) todeterminewhether theproposed action
isa development.Ifthe proposed actionisa development,then the valuation detennines
whether a SMA minor permitor use(major)permitisrequired.Ifthe proposed actionisnot
a development,thena SMA exemption can be issued,and valuationisnot relevant.
(The Department requestedthe documents thatwere referencedin thisquestionbut we did
not receivethem; however,we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
6. The Department isnot aware thattheterm “media room” isdefined inMCC.
a. No, the Department did not ordera toolto measure buildingelevations.After
discussionsamong our enforcementpersonneland buildinginspectors,itwas determined
thatthe devicesthatare accurateto thedegree needed arethoseused by licensedsurveyors
and engineeringprofessionals,and arequitetechnicaland sophisticated.
7.
b. Yes, thepad heightwas measured and documented by a licensedsurveyorthatwe hired
to perform thistask.
c. An after-the-factSMA minor permit was issued forthe wall afterreviewingthe SMA
assessmentand applicablecriteria.
d. 1'heDepartment isnot aware of the wallhaving a particularclassification.
(The Department requestedthedocument thatwas quoted inthisquestionbut we did not
receiveit;however, we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
The violation was that the wall was constructed without firstundergoing SMA
review. (The Department requestedthe document thatwas referencedand quoted in this
questionbut we did not receiveit;however, we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
8.
Honorable Michael P.Victorino,Mayor
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Michael J.Molina,Chair
May 23,2022
Page 3
The Department imposesa standardS1,000 feeforallafter-the-factapplicationsand
docs notimposean additionalfeebasedon projectvaluation.(The Department requested
thedocument thatwas referencedinthisquestionbutwe did not receive it;however, we
believethisresponseisaccurate.)
9.
The SeniorLand Use and BuildingPlans Examiner isa working supervisorwho
reviewsbuildingpermitslikealloftheotheremployeesinthe Department’splansreview
section.Thisbuildingpermitwas not“elevated”toher review;itwas assignedto her like
hundredsofothersarceachyear.(The Departmentrequestedthedocument thatwas quoted
in thisquestionbut we did not receiveit;however, we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
10.
11. The Departmenthasneveracknowledgedorapprovedany transientvacationrental
use on the property.(The Department requestedthe document thatwas quoted in this
questionbut we did not receiveit;however, we believethisresponseisaccurate.)
Short-termrentalhome regulationswere not consideredas partof the Department’s
reviewofthepermitsforthisprojectbecausetheDepartment has always maintained thatthe
structurewould be used forlong-termoccupancy or as a second home, and thatshort-term
rental use would not be allowed.
12.
As noted in theresponseto questionno. 5, when reviewinga SMA assessment
application,theDepartmentappliesthedefinitionsfrom HRS Section205A-22to determine
whethertheproposedactionisa development.Iftheproposedactionisa development,then
thevaluationdetermineswhethera SMA minor permitor use (major)permitisrequired.If
the proposed actionis not a development,then a SMA exemption can be issued,and
valuation isnot relevant.
13.
Ifyou haveany questionsorrequireadditionalinformation,pleasefeelfreetocontactme.
Sincerely,.
MICHELE MCLEAN, AICP
Planning Director
Moana Lutey,CorporationCounsel
Jordan Molina, Directorof Public Works
MCM:aiw
S:\ALL\MicheIe\Council\Molina GREAT 36 statusj-doc-x
xc:
County Clerk R.g^,iiV£Q
From:
Sent:
Leah Santos <leahmsantos@gmaiLcom>
Wednesday, August 3,2022 6:34 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;KeaniN.Rawlins;TamaraA.Paltin;ShaneJ*J:^[^^;^^il^^^gimura;Kelly
King;TashaA.Kama;MikeJ.Molina;GabeJohnsonCOUNTY CLERK
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
im AUG -4 AH & 11
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom leahmsantos@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha mai kakou
Mahalo nui forthe opportunityto submit my writtensupportof Ke Kula ‘o Pi‘ilaniand
theacquisitionof the‘TaoValleyspace,formerlyHawai‘i Nature Center,locatedabove
Kepaniwai HeritageGarden.
My name isLeah Santos and I am a Maui girlwho was bom and raisedhere and who
learned ‘Olelo 1-Iawai‘iand numerous hana no‘eau skillsfrom Ke Kula ‘oPi‘ilanithrough
po‘o kula,Kekai Robinson. Her oversightand community involvement in regardsto
championing Hawaiian immersion educationand placebased ‘ikekupuna isinfectious.
She has recruitedamazingly dedicatedstaff,taught numerous students and engaged
language learners,allwithinour Maui community. Ke Kula ‘oPi‘ilanihas become a home
forso many of us and Iam proud tosay thatI am an avid supporterof thisorganization.
I am writingin supportof the purchase and acquisitionof the land,buildings,and
structuresassociatedwith TMK No. (2) 3-3-003-006 and TMK No. (2) 3-3-003-008
locatedat875 ‘TaoValleyRoad.Thispurchaseagreementmade on behalfof Ke Kula ‘o
Pi‘ilaniwillsolidifytheirpermanent school siteand will centera greatcommunity and
educationalassetwithin the valley.This partnershipbetween school officialsand the
County of Maui, willallow Ke Kula ‘oPi‘laniand itsgrowing keikitheopportunitytobe
truestewardsof the ‘alna,to uplifta continuednativeHawaiian presencein thissacred
space,and toauthenticallysharetheessenceof ‘ikekupuna withothers(bothvisitorsand
localsalike).
Mahalo nui for taking the time to hear my thoughts regarding this advantageous
community partnershipwhich places culturaleducation and Hawaiian language
acquisitionatthe forefront,where itbelongs.
Leah Santos
1
Count^Clerk
KaylaHK <kaylamaui.hi@gmail.com>
Friday,August 5,2022 12:13 PM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Keani N. Rawlins;Tamara A. Paltin;Shane M. Sinenci;YukileiSugimura; Kelly
King;Tasha A. Kama; Mike J.Molina;Gabe Johnson
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILL NO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF
REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,...
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Some people who receivedthismessage don't often get email from kaylamaui.hi@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha e Maui County Council,
My name isKayla Shaw and lama makua of a keikiwho attends Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniinthe prestigiousvalleyof Tao. 1am
honored to offera testimony insupport of BILLNO. 123, A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE
FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL
PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND - KE KULA '0 PI'ILANI,'TaO,MAUI, HAWAI'I. Ialsowant to express gratitudeto allof you
forexpeditingthe processon your agenda.
As mentioned, ISUPPORT this billand believe that the presence of Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniisessentialhere in'TaoValley.The
kulacontributesto a richhistoryand iscontinuingthe existenceof that historyby itspresence alone. Keikiare speaking
'OleloHawai'iand practicingtheircultureinauthenticand exemplary ways. La hana or workdays are conducted
frequentlyto malama 'ainabeyond the grounds of the school.With the passing of thisbill,Ke Kula '0 Pi'ilaniwillbe able
to have furtherinfluenceon thisvalleyina way thatwillbe beneficialto allto witness and experiencefrom kama'aina to
visitors.Pleaseconsidermy testimony.Mahalo!
Me ka 'oia'i'o,
Kayla Shaw
The contents of IhLs email and attadinients are inteiidetlonly fortlieaddressee(s)and may containconfidi-nllaland/or privilegedinformationand may be legallyprotectedfrom
disclosure.Ifyou are nottheintendedrecipientofthisemail or theiragent,or ifthi.smessage has been addressed to j'otiin error,please immediately alerttJiesender by replying,
then deletethisemailand any attadiments.Ifyou are not the intended recipient,you are hereby notifiedlliatany use.dissemination,copying,or storageoftillsemailnr attachments
isstrictlyprohibited.
1
From: Amy Stephens
Sent:Thursday,August 4, 2022 8:10 PM
To: County Cierk
Subject:Support CR22-73, Investigatethe Formal Investigationof the PlanningDepartment
Aloha County Council,
1support CR22-73, Tamara Paltin’sCommittee to launch a Formal Investigationof Planning and Public
Works' approvalsof Greg Brown's NapiiiMonster "Hotel".The PlanningDepartment has evaded
responsibilityforthisdecisionthat even Michele McLean admitted was a mistake.The people of Napiii
and Maui County deserve answers and transparencyas to how thisplan was approved.
Pleaseapprove launchinga formal investigation.
Mahalo foryour time and doingthe rightthing,
Amy Stephens
Napiii,Maui
(F)0 73O-n
C3!
“Im
m
oI
mK/\<
o <o n
m
O:sx XT
;s:rn o
Count^^lerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
Friday,August 5,2022 8:28AM
naluhiwa@aol.com; County Clerk
MauLCounty Council_mailbox
FW; Dummy innapili
08.05.22CouncilAgenda.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha Glenn,
Forwarding your email to county.clerk@mauicounty.us as per the attached8/5/22 CouncilAgenda.
Mahalo,
Office of Council Services
808-270-7838
—Original Message—
From: Glenn Thielk <naluhiwa@aol.com>
Sent: Friday,August 05, 2022 8:10 AM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject;Dummy in napili
[You don't often get email from naluhiwa@aol.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Isupport Tamara Paltinto investigatethishotel in napilibeing builtby some foreigner.
Mahalo Hau'oli Thielk
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEfVED ,
Ml AUG-5 AH 7:<10
MAUIi > OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-73 / Resolution 22-159
Authorizing A Council Committee to Conduct A Formal Investigation of the
Department of Planning and the Department of Public Works
Friday, August 5, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
We believe itisimportant to have a fairand equitable permittingsystem with clear
rules.As formal investigationsare paid forby taxpayer dollars,we liketo see a clear
definitionof the scope of work and a timelineto achieve the goal.We believe at this
point,given the auditfindings,thatthisisneeded. We commend the Planning
Department foracknowledging thatmistakes were made inthisinstanceand
understand that mistakes happen, but we feelmore needs to be done to close
loopholes.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
for business, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,whilepreservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
J*; MAUI Ml AUG-5 AH 7:40
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-71 / Bill 101
Fencing for Axis Deer Management
Friday, August 5, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
I sit on the Axis Deer Task Force on behalf of the Maui Chamber of Commerce and we
support thismeasure to allow the buildingoffences up to 10ftto protectagricultural
land from Axis Deer. Axis Deer are a significantchallenge and fencing iscriticalto
mitigatetheirdamage.
While we generallyhear 8ftas the requiredheightto keep the deer out,we see inthe
Committee Report thatthere are other models thatallowfencing up to 10ft,so we
support the effortto increase the heightwithoutrequiringa buildingpermit inthese
circumstances.
We appreciate the work the Council isdoing to help mitigatethe Axis Deer issue with
thisbill,funding forfarmers and ranchers and more.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
7
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
forbusiness, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,while preservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
j 808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
received
A(iG-s iH7:«io
OPPICE OF THECOUNTY CLERK
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-70 /Bill 108
Establishing a PilotProject Allowing Houseless Persons to Temporarily Use
Their Vehicles for the Purposes of Human Habitation on County Property
Friday, August 5, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
The Maui Chamber of Commerce supports the intentand idea of thisbillto allow
homeless persons to park at a county owned propertyovernight.We are hearing from
employers and socialworkers who are sharing storiesof individualsand familieswho
are livingintheirvehicles and findingplaces to park overnight,but oftentimes they are
gettingticketedor are forced to move theircars several times throughout the night.
Sometimes they cannot affordto pay the ticket,the fees buildup, and they are then
afraid to drive their vehicle to work or to take their childrento school, causing
tremendous stress.
While we feelthispilotprojectisa possiblesolutionand worth tryinggiven the crisis
we are currentlyexperiencing,we would liketo betterunderstand what models were
examined and what lessons were learned from those models when draftingthisbillto
create an improved solution.We also feel itisimportant forthe publicto understand
the cost analysisof thispilotprogram as additionalemployee and/or contractortime
would be needed to check people inand monitor the facilityovernight.
Additionally,we have some questions and suggestions to consider when executing
thispilotproject.Interms of a location,are you lookingat facilitieswith largeparking
lotslikethe War Memorial Gym, Lahaina Civic Center and Kihei Gymnasium? Those
would seem to be ideallocationsas they are commonly used foremergency shelters,
have gated entries,and needed amenities. Are other parks or propertiesbeing
considered? As there may be many cars linedup to enter the property at the
designated time,are trafficconsiderationsbeing discussed and willthere be a limitto
the number of cars allowed? Willneighboring residences and businesses be notified
and what willbe done to mitigatethe impacts to neighboring properties?Lastly,as
some of these people cannot affordto pay fortheirregistration,safety check and/or
outstanding ticketsfortheirvehicle,willusing these facilitiessubject them to additional
enforcement?
808-244^81 legislation@MauiChaniber.comMauiChamberxx>m62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-70/Bill 108
Friday, August 5, 2022
Page 2.
We applaud the Council fortryingto help and would ideallyliketo see a more thorough
proposal with background informationon differentmodels used throughout the country,
a cost analysis,and our questions answered and considered. Also, as thisisa pilot
program, we suggest the Council review itevery 4 months instead of every 12 months
so you can work out any issues along the way and quicklyidentifyifthisisworking and
to what degree.
Mahaio forthe opportunityto provide testimony.
Sincerely:
-/
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
forbusiness, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,while preserving Maui's unique community
characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislatioiK^auiChamber.com MauiChambercom
received
2tuAUG-5 im7:i|0
OFFICE GF THE
COUNTY CLERK
August 4, 2022
Maui County Council
CQLintv-clerk@m3uicounLv.us
Subject:
WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO SUPPORT BILLNO. 123,A BILLFOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS ITPERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL
PURPOSE REVENUES -SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/5PECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023, ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND -KE KULA 'O Pf'lLANl,'TAO,MAUI,
HAWAIT
Aloha,
I'mwritingthisletterinsupportof Ke Kula0 Pi'ilaniand theirpurchaseand acquisitionoftheformerlao
Lodge and HawaiiNatureCenter.I'mgratefulto be heard by thecouncil,and appreciateailthework
you do forour community.
As the former Directorof Operationsforthe HawaiiNature Center laoValleyfrom 2002 to 2010,1
fortunatetobe a partofthestewardshipofthesitethroughour environmentaleducationprograms.At
our highpoint,we were servingover5,000childrengradesK-5inlaoValley,aswellas providinghikes,
culturalprograms and otheractivitiesforthe community. Unfortunately,the programs
shutdown in2010 basedupon a decisionfrom theHNC Board of Directorson Oahu. Forseveralyears
afterthesitefellintodisrepair,and theconnectiontotheainawas lost.However,thesitecame quickly
backtolifewhen Ke Kula0 Pi'ilanibegan operatingtheirHawaiiancultureand languageimmersion
elementaryschool.Iwas overjoyedtoknow theappropriateorganization and use was now in lao.
Ican'tthinkofa betterorganizationto takeon thestewardshipofthissacredplace,and hope you will
support the acquisition.
was
we ran were
Sincerely,