MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-06-21
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1304,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiMyiiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
June 21,2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBER. KALANA O MAUI BUILDING.
WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:00 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of June 21, 2022,
please come to order. It is approximately 9 a.m.
Roll call, Mr. Clerk. But before you begin, the morning greeting is from Guam. In case
any of you have plans to go to Guam over the weekend and so, you can greet the
people there by saying hafa adai. And that means, good morning. Roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER; Chair, proceeding with roll call.
Members participating from non-public locations should state who, if anyone, is present
with them as part of roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Hafa adai. Chair and, excuse me, aloha kakahiaka my Maui
hikina. For the record, I am in my home office today. And it looks like Ms. Medeiros
will, will post In the chat if there's any testifiers in the district office. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and hafa adai. Madam Chair. I'm transmitting from the
Council Chambers here this morning, a Chamber that's filled with a lot of life and cheer
so to speak. For the record, there are no testifiers at the Paia District Office. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 2
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair and, and colleagues and hafa adai to
everyone. We're, I'm in, I'm actually transmitting from my home office. As you know,
I have to leave early to catch a plane. So, I'm trying to stay on as long as possible.
And I would love to be here for the ceremonial resolutions, really excited about those.
But I also want to report that we have no testifiers at the district office. I am alone in
my home office, but a couple of rooms away, I have a full house; my husband Bob
King, my daughter Jenna and her husband Chris Long, and my two grandchildren Vivi
and Kat Long. So, we have a full house there. We're all getting on a plane today, a
little bit later.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Hope you have a wonderful family reunion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou and hafa adai. I'm broadcasting live
and direct from the Old Lahaina Center here in historic Lahaina Town with my
EA Angela Lucero. And we have no testifiers at this time. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Paltin.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning, everybody. Hafa adai. And very exciting
day in the Chambers. We have representatives for the Patsy Mink 50^^ anniversary of
Title IX in the Chambers on that side from Maui High School, as well as we have all
these bright and cheery cheerleaders in the back. So, I'm looking forward to an exciting
meeting. And thank you very much, looking forward.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 3
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair. And hafa dai to my colleagues and
everyone out there in Akaku land. I am here in the Council Chambers. And too bad
you're not here, cause then you can't feel the excitement that we're generating here.
So, good morning, everyone.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Will be a little late. So, excused for now.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Hafa dai, everyone, and welcome to our Council meeting.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, YUKI LEI K.
SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: GABRIEL JOHNSON ANDCOUNCILMEMBER
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
(Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez was not present when the roll was called;
however, she arrived at 9:27 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are seven Members present, two Members
excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are Legislative Division staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana,
and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks today will be provided by me, so this will be short and it'll, this
is for all of us; a prayer for our meeting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 4
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Chair Alice Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Please join me now in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Stand.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it's your turn to speak. Decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony
There's one individual currently signed up to testify
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
ceremonial resolutions,
ceremonial resolutions, and that is Lucienne de Naie.
on
on
CHAIR LEE: Ms. de Naie.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-155):
Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DE NAIE: Good morning, Councilmembers. I just wanted to give a little reflection on the
50 years of the Patsy Mink amendment, having grown up in a time before women's
sports activities were given much credence and having been a very active student-
athlete when I went to high school in the 1960's and college in the later 1960's. What
a blessing it was that Patsy Mink decided that women needed to be put on the same
track in terms of recognition of their abilities in the field of athletics. She had to fight
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 5
discrimination in the field of academics. But it has opened up so many new worlds for
women scholarships. Many of the folks that graduated a few years after me were able
to go and get scholarships to go to college because of their outstanding athletic
abilities, because the colleges were asked to do the right thing.
And I can remember I was on the high school swim team. We got to use the pool in
the winter when it was cold. The boys got to use it in the warmer months because their
swim team was more important than ours, even though our swim team won a lot of
records. We had one person that actually went onto the Olympics. I grew up in coastal
Orange County, California, and every single person needed to be able to swim or pass
a swimming test to graduate from high school. It was that big a deal.
So, it's just great that we've had 50 years for women to really show that they are equally
proficient in all of the athletic fields. And we're starting to get some parity for pay, for
our professional women athletes at last, as well. So, and we don't know why it's taken
this long, but it was just a very, very visionary first step. And Patsy Mink being one of
our own, and such an amazing presence. I'm sure many of us here had the pleasure
of meeting and talking with her over her term in Congress. I, I certainly benefited from
many meetings that I had with her to consult on local issues, and she was really there
for us. And this is a lasting legacy. So, thank you for, whoever put this forward, to
honor her. It's, it is really an important achievement for our nation. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much, Ms. de Naie. Those are powerful words, because as you
know, those of us who grew up in the '70s had a very difficult time. So, today, we
celebrate the fact that we're almost equal. Thank you.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's currently no one else signed up to testify on
ceremonial resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, on either resolution. Members, any objections to closing testimony--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: --on the resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 6
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with ceremonial resolutions.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-155
COMMEMORATING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE PATSY TAKEMOTO MINK EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY IN EDUCATION ACT
CHAIR LEE; Ms., Councilmember Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-155.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to adopt
Resolution 22-155.
Discussion? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Please, may I ask the Clerk to read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much. Chair. Thank you. Clerk, for reading
the resolution, i wanted to take this opportunity before I speak about the reso, to add
some names to the resolution if you would let me do that now, or would you like me-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 7
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yeah? Okay. So, could you add in Governor David Y. Ige;
State Representative Linda Clark; Hawaii Department of Education, Education
Superintendent Keith Hayashi; University of Hawaii Maui College Chancellor Lui
Hokoana. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; I don't have an objection. Chair, but I would like to also add a
few names to the list.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; I'd like to add the Hawaii State Association of Counties and the
National Association of Counties; HSAC and NACo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Good idea.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Very good.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; If not, so ordered.
Okay, and now your discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes, thank you very much for allowing me to do the
amendment. Thank you very much. And as you know. Mink, Congressman,
Congresswoman Mink was a third generation Japanese American having been born
and raised on the island of Maui and graduated as class president and valedictorian to
the Maui High School Class of 1944. After graduating from college, her supervisor at
Honolulu Academy of Arts suggested she study law. And in 1948, she was admitted
to the University of Chicago Law School.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 8
In 1956, she became the first Japanese American woman to serve in the Territorial
House, and two years later the first woman to serve in the Territorial Senate when she
won her campaign for the higher office. Later, she became the first woman of color
and first Asian American woman elected to Congress, and also the first woman elected
to Congress for the State of Hawaii serving a total of 12 terms.
She went on to co-author Title IX of the Higher Education Act Amendment later
renamed the Patsy T. Mink Educational Opportunity in Education Act in 2002. This
landmark education prohibits sex-based discrimination in any school or any other
education program that receives funding from the Federal government, which made it
possible for girls and women to participate in school sports and in education more
broadly at the same level as boys and men.
I respectfully ask the Members to join me in commemorating the 50th anniversary of
the Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act and ask for your full support. And
before ! turn this over, 1 also wanted to mention, I really appreciate this, Hawaii High
School Athletic Association Natalie Iwamoto sent this letter to support this resolution.
And she says, that after 17 years, Hawaii HHASA [sic] Association is 96 member
schools in various chapters, capacities in most years. That's what she's been doing
as director of information. And be, and behalf of HHSAA, she supports this resolution.
But really interesting, she says that before the passage of Title VII [sic] in 1972, there
were an estimated 300,000 women and girls playing college and high school sports in
the United States. And she says that today there are over 3.5 million. That is a big
achievement. Participating in high school athletics was, which made up of 43 percent
of high school athletics.
Without a doubt, the late Honorable Patsy Takemoto Mink has left a mark not only here
in Hawaii, but in every State in our nation. The extraordinary contribution of Mink and
the Title IX Education Amendment are worthy of this resolution. I just wanted to bring
that to our attention, because it came this morning to our, to us. And later, after the
vote, I have some speakers, if you would allow them to come forward. Chair. So, thank
you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. I would like to thank my colleague,
Member Sugimura, for this resolution. Certainly, this is very, very important
commemoration. Fifty years and look what has happened in 50 years since Title IX.
So much more opportunities for young women in athletics. And I remember growing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 9
up, even on watching sports on television, you very rarely did you see women sporting
events on TV. But now, it's the norm, and it was through efforts of like former
Representative Patsy Mink. What a hero she was and she herself fought a lot of
battles. So, it's great cause we have a lot of young people in the Chambers here today,
so they can understand the history of how we got here today, and what a wonderful
person the late Patsy Mink was. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. You know, one of the things I always think
about when i think about Patsy Mink about what influenced her? You know, that as a
young Asian woman that she could even think that she could move that rubber tree
plant. And so, as I remember back in history, that in 1961, at President Kennedy's
inaugural address he said, "ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can
do for your country". And 1, she resonates with me, because I know that at that time,
she was still, you know, trying to work her way into politics. And although I was a young
kid at the time, my father was very active in military and politics.
But one of those things that I like to remember about Patsy is that she was, you know,
she wasn't a very tall person in stature. As a matter of fact, she was pretty tiny by most
standards. But you know, she was like a dynamite. She was like a stick of dynamite,
that when she stood up and she spoke, you knew there was a powerhouse in that
room. And you know, I remember she addressing the Hawaiian homesteaders early
on, and she said, "Hawaiians, you want to get ahead, organize, organize, organize".
And I remember that even to this day. And I am so grateful for her, because Hawaiians
organized, and they organized, and they organized. And where a lot of us are today,
is because of her. So, thank you. Chair. And thank you to Patsy Mink.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
And we have Member King and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think Member Paltin was first. Chair, so I'll yield to her first.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Member King. Thank you, Chair. And thank you
Member Sugimura for this resolution. It had a big impact on my life. I don't know where
I would be without sports. And you know, even though I went to school in the 90's, you
know, it was still kind of a struggle to get Title IX to all of the reaches of the country.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 10
You know, while they never did say that we couldn't swim as, as females, the women's
restroom at our swimming pool at the high school  Iwent to was used for in-school
suspension. So, only the boys' restroom had hot showers. And you know, they didn't
want to hear any of those types of complaints. But because it's Federal law, we got to
use the boys' restrooms for hot showers. So, you know, it's just every, every
opportunity you can take to, to move that needle and, and say that you know, we're
worthy of having bathrooms, as well as participating in the sports. Because if it's good
for one gender, it's good for all. So, very grateful. I don't know where I'd be without
those types of accommodations in life, you know? So, thank you very much to Patsy
Mink and thank you, Member Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Paltin.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. And mahalo. Member Sugimura. for bringing
this forward. This was a couple of weeks ago, I was at a convention on Oahu, and
there was a session about Patsy Mink, because of the 50th-year anniversary. I'm not
sure if Member Sugimura was there or not. But wow it was so much more than about
sports, what she brought. And if you look at Title XVIIII [sic], it says, "any program shall
not discriminate in any program that receives Federal funding". So, you know, I was
more on the nerd side of things when I was on high school than, than the athletic side.
But, but we, we learned in that panel we had our own Leslie Wilkins from MEDB. She
was actually mentored by Patsy Mink. We had a woman who, whose mother was
Patsy Mink's campaign manager all the years she ran for Congress. We had a member
who gave, a panelist who gave an entire history of Patsy Mink's life in the public,
including, and you know, her being such a down-to-earth person, but then having to
endure the discrimination, not just, not just from other colleagues in Congress, but from
her own colleagues from Hawaii. She was very, she, you know, the stories of her
discrimination against her for being a woman, you know, who dared to be in a room full
of congressmen was really touching.
And I just, I felt like this needs to be brought, that kind of presentation needs to be
brought back to Maui. Because the, the young people don't know, don't have that
connection necessarily with her and don't understand the sacrifices that she made. I
think, I think about this Council, and how six women, oh my god, would we be here with
this kind of, you know, gender imbalance? But you know, I mean, it's about time. And
would we be here without Patsy Mink?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 11
So, it goes, it, it, the sports is really important, and I appreciate that, because I have
people in my family that are very sports oriented. But it was so much more than that.
It goes into other educational programs. It goes into politics. It goes into all kinds of
community activism. So, thank you again, Member Sugimura. And I whole-heartedly
support this.
If, if she's not in the receiving side, would anybody object to adding Leslie Wilkins, since
she was such a, she was close to, you know, as a recipient? Because she was close
to Patsy Mink and she was definitely directly mentored by her.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And thank you for your testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So before we go into the vote, I just also wanted to add, I
was asked about this commemorative resolution, and I said the reason why this is very
special to Maui County is because number one, this is where she grew up. She went
to Maui High School, so you see all of these speakers here from Maui High School.
But also, her family members live here. And I wanted to just add their names into the
record, if you would allow me to? And we got addresses for, Joyce Murashige did
some work ahead of time with my office, so we got some addresses. So, it is Eugene
Takemoto, which is her brother, he lives in Oahu. Phyllis Takara, Maureen Farineau,
Judie Wong, Ruth Tamura, Calvin Tamura, Sara Tamayose, Julie Tamura, Patricia
Akai, wife of Harold Akai, Gerald Akai, Sammy Tateyama, Rodney Tateyama, April
Tengan, and Vivian Ueoka. So, these are people amongst us who live in our
community, who were part of her very beginnings, and her family. So, I wanted to just
add them also to the resolution, if you would allow me. And I will turn the list over to
the Clerk's Office.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez arrived at the meeting at 9:27 a.m.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 12
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: We have one more person on the call. Let the record show that Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez has joined the meeting. Member Rawlins-Fernandez, did you
have anything you'd like to say?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, sure. Mahalo Chair. And aloha kakahiaka, and
aloha kakahiaka to all my colleagues. I'm at the Molokai District Office alone here at
the office. And we didn't have any testifiers on the ceremonial resolutions. Mahalo for
the opportunity to speak in strong support of the ceremonial resolution. Mahalo
Member Sugimura for introducing it. And I would like to echo all of the sentiments
shared by my colleagues, of course.
One thing, and I'll dovetail a little off of what Member King was sharing about it being
more than just sports. What the statute says, is no person in the U.S. shall have, shall
on the basis of sex be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any education program, or activity receiving Federal
financial assistance. So, in this pride month, I wanted to make sure it was said that
this also protected those in the LGBTQ+ community. That it forbids discrimination
based on sex and education, and despite its age, remains vital piece of ongoing
legislation and forequality, including LGBT.
That the law applies to several areas of education, athletics, which we talked
extensively about, but also the classroom sexual assault and violence on campus,
employment discrimination, admissions, retaliation, and even financial assistance with
tuition. And that it has been extended in other forms of gender and sex discrimination.
Title IX was invoked by the Obama Administration, advised that transgender people
should be allowed to use the bathroom of their choice in schools.
So, I, I think, you know, she was such a trailblazer in ensuring equity in this patriarchal
system. And it, it's scary as we see some Federal policies slipping backwards, that it,
it's so fragile, the rights that we have. That it's so important that people continue to be
engaged and speak strongly to protect rights for everyone. Because it's when rights
for one person is, is destroyed, taken away, removed, denied, then it's going to affect
everyone. So, I think she was strong in the fact that she brought people together, as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 13
member, as Pro Temp Kama talked about, to fight for rights for everyone, to ensure
that the rights of everyone were not trampled on. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? If not, I just want to add some words, too.
Some of us had the pleasure of knowing Congresswoman Patsy Mink. She has, she
visited this County Building many times, and we were in meetings with her. And 1 think
she must be smiling down today, seeing that there's so many outstanding women in
the Chambers, and men.
But as Member King mentioned, unlike the early beginnings where men, women
couldn't even vote, let alone hold office, today we have the majority of Members on the
Council, we have nine Members on the County Council, six are women. And, and
these are not shrinking violet-type women. These are all leaders. And so, hopefully,
one day, some of you will be sitting where we are and taking care of the people of Maui
County.
So now. Members, may I call for the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mr. Sinenci had his hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see that.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahaio. Thank you, Chair. And mahaio, Member Molina.
Yeah, I just, I too, wanted to kakou the sentiments of my fellow Councilmembers and
Councilwomen. And mahaio Member Sugimura for bringing up this historical
precedence. Patsy Mink is a historical figure in our Maui's history. And I'd be remiss
if I didn't mention that she inspired Hana School, baseball/softball girls onto two MIL
championships.
And in a recent visit to Seward, Alaska, the town was very proud of their Olympic
swimmer, Lydia Jacoby. And they were all, we were in the same building that they
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 14
were all cheering for the 17-year-old swimmer as she won her second Olympic medal.
So, mahalo forthat. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Sinenci.
Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of adopting this resolution, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: 1 see eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. So, we will take at least a
few minutes to present the leis. And do we have speakers?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, I do. So, at this time, I'd like to invite, first of all
Shawna Pabingwit from UH Maui College. She is the Title IX coordinator, and she's
online actually. And please, I'm going to apologize to her in advance because I said
her name wrong.
CHAIR LEE: I see her. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Is she there? Okay. Good morning. So, if you can say a
few words, if you could.
MS. SHAWNA PABINGWIT: Aloha everyone. My name is Shawna Pabingwit and I'm the
Title IX coordinator for University of Hawaii Maui College. And in my role, I am able to
provide students with much needed support and resources. And you know. Title IX
has changed so many lives here, especially with the Hawaii youth system, and as it
helps to guarantee equal opportunity and education for all students.
And as mentioned, Title IX protections have extended to include sexual assault, sexual
harassment, gender-based harassment, domestic violence, dating violence and even
stalking, which we may not consider. But it's great that it has evolved. And importantly,
this is not just for women, but for everyone in the campus community. And I am
honored and so proud to work for the University of Hawaii, as we are committed to
providing a learning, working, and living environment that is free from all forms of sex
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 15
discrimination and gender-based violence. This not only protects our students, but
also our employees. So, that includes faculty and staff as well.
And on behalf of UH Maui College, we thank Patsy Mink for her hard work and
resilience. And we thank you all for your support. Through awareness, education, and
compliance with Title IX, we hope to continue her legacy. And like other Members
have mentioned today, I would not be where I am today if it weren't for Patsy Mink and
Title IX. So, mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. And do we have another speaker?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We also have in our audience our Superintendent, which
is Jamie Yap. So, I want him, if he could, come up and say a few words, along with
Mike Ban, who's a Maui High School Athletic Director. And he brought some of his
students, and I have leis for them. So, at the appropriate time, I would like to also
present then with leis. So, Jamie Yap and Mike, if you wouldn't mind saying a few
words, along with, I want to call her Lisa Kushi's daughter. I'm sorry. She's the Vice-
Principal of Maui High School. It's the Maui style of knowing people.
MR. JAMIE YAP: Good morning, Councilmembers, and thank you Councilmember Sugimura.
Congratulations also to Maui All-Stars, Keali'i Molina for an outstanding job he does
over there. Representing the . . . complex and of course . . . complex would not be
without a canoe complex, so all of Maui, tri-isle.
As we support Title IX to its end, yeah, and home of Patsy Mink, where she grew up
and went to school at Maui High School, we believe it's real important to have equity
for all women, and for all students at our schools. And at Maui High School, we're
building, it's coming up, a locker room dedicated just for the women. We just had a
new weight room put in and working with Mr. Ban making sure there's equity for time,
practice, and weightlifting, and so forth, so the women don't go last. The women can
go first. And same with scheduling. We worked real hard to schedule, for example,
our basketball games to be equitable with the men. So, we're not always playing at
5:00. And we work real hard to make sure that they become the center and the focus
of our athletics. And its amazing how many people come and watch just because,
given the time change.
I'm just honored to be here and want to thank everyone. And if it wasn't for Patsy Mink,
I don’t know what would have happened. And ! am a proud father of one daughter, so
it was real important for her to be involved in athletics growing up. And I want to see
this continue moving forward. And 1 support this 100 percent, so thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 16
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Jamie, if you could stay there, so we can give you leis.
So, Maui High School, please take over and you can, Mike Ban, whoever, can lead us
at how this next--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you, you said Lisa Kushi's daughter?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Daughter. Yeah. She has to say her-
CHAIR LEE: First name.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm so sorry.
MR. MIKE BAN: Good morning. My name is Mike Ban. I'm the Athletic Director here at Maui
High School. And next up, I would like to introduce our Vice-Principal and Maui High
Alumni Elizabeth Ayotte.
MS. ELIZABETH AYOTTE: Good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for this opportunity
to address all of you in honor of commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Patsy
Mink Equal Opportunity Education Act. My name is Elizabeth Ayotte, and I am a former
athlete, coach, and graduate of Maui High School. Because of Title IX, I have seen
the growth of girls' athletics from youth sports to college and beyond. I have witnessed
the planning and construction of a $6 million girls locker room at Maui High School,
softball fields, and more. There have been numerous opportunities for girls through
scholarships, higher-level competitions, and even through advance toward possibly
greater visibility to colleges and other benefits.
Now, as a current Maui High School Vice-Principal, I can honestly say that Title IX has
provided me with the competence, as well as the opportunities to pursue my interests
in education and leadership. Thank you for acknowledging Congresswoman Patsy
Mink and this Equal Opportunity in Education Act that has forever changed my life and
the lives of girls across the nation. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much.
MR. BAN: Thank you and good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 17
MR. BAN: And I want to say thank you, first of all. to Councilwoman Sugimura for introducing
this bill, and for the Council here today for having us have this opportunity to talk.
Again, my name is Mike Ban, Athletic Director of Maui High School. And you know,
it’s the 50th anniversary of the Patsy Takemoto Mink Equal Opportunity in Education
Act, also known as Title IX. And it just makes us more aware of the responsibility, and
the obligation to fulfill this Act. As you know, Patsy Mink was a 1944 graduate of Maui
High School and is also a member of our Hall of Honor.
And I thought about this yesterday, and I thought about Patsy Mink, someone who was
born and raised in our community, and she created  alaw or legislation that affected
not only people in Hawaii, but the nation, and even, some may argue, around the world.
And I thought, wow, this is a great opportunity for our students. I see some students
from the Maui All-Stars there, that you guys can, you know, do great things out there.
The possibility to dream big is very important, it's very amazing.
And the second thing I thought about was the, the effect of Title IX, having this, you
know, girls' locker room being built on our campus. In the recent months, Maui High
School celebrated some alumni who made some big strides in the fields of athletics.
We have Nawai Kaupe, who just signed her first pro contract with the Florida Vibe. We
have Alyssa Mae Antolin, who's setting records at UH Manoa on the track team. And
I thought about this as a, you know, they had a great opportunity, and it's ail because
of the efforts of the Congresswoman Patsy Mink and the office of Title IX, and how far
they pushed this legislation through, to see it through. So, I really appreciate you
honoring and commemorating the 50th anniversary. And thank you for honoring Patsy
Mink.
I also have in attendance here today, come on girls. I have three girls, student athletes.
And 1 wanted to introduce them. So, first, come on behind me, Macy Filiazar. She’s a
two-sport athlete. She's going to be a senior next year, so . . . great things. And then
Jacy Anne Dela Cruz, who's also the class of 2023. She's a three-sport athlete. And
our most recent graduate. Amber Donnelly, who is also a three-sport athlete, that would
like to say a few words for you.
MS. AMBER DONNELLY: Good morning. My name is Amber Donnelly. As he said. I'm a
recent graduate from Maui High in the class of 2022, three-sport athlete. 1 played girls
volleyball, girls soccer, and girls track and field. And athletics have played a huge role
in my life. When I first entered Maui High as a freshman, I was a quiet person who had
just a few friends. And by participating in athletics, it gave me the confidence to try out
new sports and meet new people. I gained confidence and became outgoing. And by
my senior year, I was selected to be team captain and learned important lessons on
leadership.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 18
One of the most importantThrough athletics, I learned a lot about myself,
characteristics I learned was perseverance. I learned how to be mentally tough and
how to push myself through different challenges. In track, I trained extra hard to make
it to the State tournament, because I didn't want to embarrass myself or Maui High.
So, I worked even harder, which resulted in me placing third in both of my events.
I'm grateful for Title IX. I feel I'm ready for the next chapter of my life. The lessons 1
have learned through sports have shaped who I am today. As a female athlete, I felt
special. My team and I were one of the first teams to work out in our new weight room
facility. 1 was able to travel with my teams to Oahu and Hawaii island. We trained with
the best equipment, and we had the same uniform opportunities as the boys. We have
a girls softball stadium on our campus, and I saw the plans for the new athletic girls
locker room, which I am jealous of since I graduated. But I’m glad and happy for the
underclassmen. I heard stories of what it was like before and I am glad that I didn't
have to see that side of athletics.
Thank you to Representative Patsy Mink and the other U.S. Representatives for
fighting and passing Title IX. It is because of you that female athletes today have better
opportunities to not only be successful on the athletic field, but also to have the same
opportunities to be successful in life. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Are we going to give some leis?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I do have some leis, if you allow me to.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: If you would allow, yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It looks like they want to take a photo with us in the
background. So, if everyone would like to put their videos back on and smile for the
camera.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is it just you and I? Oh, you and !, Shane, who else is not there?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I thought Tamara too.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, yeah. Tamara. Tamara, are you, are you, cause you, 1
thought you said you were in your virtual, your district office?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 19
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Tamara, turn your video and smile.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Tamara?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, I'm in transit. I had to run home for a situation.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. We just wanted to make sure that you
knew about them taking a picture.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're taking a picture with the screen.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . take a picture of. . .
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Probably a good idea. Gotta find a way, Keani, to photoshop
people in.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can. That's easy.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, let's proceed.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-156
CONGRATULATING THE HAWAI'I ALL-STARS
CHEERLEADING PROGRAM FOR WINNING
GOLD IN TWO DIVISIONS AT THE 2022
ALLSTAR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-156.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 20
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to adopt Resolution
22-156.
Discussion? Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I would like the honor of
reading the resolution in its entirety.
CHAIR LEE: Of course, please proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. And my apologies to any of the
members if I mispronounced any names. But continuing on. Madam Chair, competitive
cheerleading has certainly reached new heights. And the members of Hawaii All-Star
Cheer are certainly outstanding examples of that. Our honorees today, you know, have
had to put in a lot of hard work, long hours, and had to endure a very long trip to the
East Coast to compete against some very, very tough teams from across the country.
So, to come home with the gold is quite an accomplishment. Competitive cheerleading
incorporates athleticism, weight training, dance, and demands teamwork, discipline,
stamina, and a lot of love and patience from coaches and parents. Maui County is
certainly very proud of all of you. May you continue to show us how teamwork can
take us to new heights.
Madam Chair, I'm going to conclude by saying this: "2, 4, 6, 8, who do we appreciate?
Hawaii, Hawaii, All-Star Cheer". Congratulations.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Very good, Mr. Molina. Any more discussion. Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I too want to extend my congratulations. It's
so exciting to have all of them in the Chambers this morning. And I was hoping that
they would do a cheer for us. They're all dressed up and ready to go into action, if they
could. We might be too small of a space for them. But thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 21
I, I want to say. 1 was talking to them before we started our meeting and actually, I hear
about this cheerleading group through my hairdresser, Iris Takitani and her daughter
and her grandchildren. And I've been hearing it for years about how, how hard it is,
how much discipline it takes, and commitment. And probably the most important thing
is that everything they do with this group, they do it after they do their homework, right?
So, it takes a lot of energy, and commitment, and focus in order to do this, and do well
in school. So, this is the kind of commitment and amazing feats they have
accomplished by going to a world tournament, right? Our little island of Maui against
who knows, out there in the universe that they competed with.
But thank you very much to the coaches and thank you very much to all of the parents,
and grandparents who support, you know, this kind of effort for their families. So, I
support this whole-heartedly. Thank you. Member Molina for bringing this forward. I
like your cheer. Wish we had more of that in the Chambers.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more discussion?
Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair. Thank you. I just want to reiterate what my
colleagues have been saying. You know, these young people are 10 years of age.
And you know, when I was 10, I just wanted to go outside and play on the playground.
But the dedication and commitment of these young people at 10 to 13 through 16, I
mean, I applaud them, because when I think about what I gotta do, I'm just so tired
sometimes. But, you know, these youngsters, they're dedicated, they're committed,
but most of all is that they want to shine for their parents, for their school, and their
community. And, you know, there's not enough words in the English dictionary to be
able to, to say and to show how deeply proud and appreciative that we are. So, thank
you, Chair and thank to everyone. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone want to speak virtually? If--
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, let's see. Because Member
Sugimura asked, I think I can, I think I can do it. "Dynamite, our team is dynamite. Our
team is tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, boom, dynamite." Congratulations.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. And she didn't even hurt herself doing it. That's the best part.
Anybody else?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 22
If not, I just want to say congratulations on behalf of the Council to everyone. We all
know how hard you have to work to get to these heights. And we appreciate all you've
done in representing our County and our State. And although I don't know too many
of you, I did recognize Traci's daughter, because you can't miss her smile. She looks
just like her, her mom, who is the Director of Council Services.
Did you have your hand up. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Actually, I was going to say the same thing. I wanted to
recognize Traci Fujita, who is the typical example of a parent who gives whole
heartedly and takes everything for her kids first. So, I think that I wanted to recognize
her and thank her for even giving us, at the Council, that same kind of focus that you
give to your children. So, thank you. Appreciate you a lot. Thank you, Traci.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Now, Members, ready to vote? Just want to check everybody had
a chance to say something. Alright, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say aye.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. Congratulations, young women.
And now, do we have a presentation.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, yes. I'd like to call upon the coaches and the
team to come up to the podium. And I'll actually come up for lei presentation and then
I'll ask the coaches and the team representative to say a few words.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Could everyone please come up to the podium.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 23
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Just point of personal privilege. I have to leave now,
but I, I didn't want, I wanted to congratulate these folks. I didn't want to delay it,
because I wanted the, my vote to be on the record. So, thank you for allowing me to
say, say a short congratulations after the fact. I'm really proud of this, these all-star
women, young women.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Safe travels our friend Councilmember Kelly King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much.
(Councilmember King was excused from the meeting at 9:58 a.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Tell the Councilmembers to make poses, cheer
poses. Oh okay, they're coming over. Oh, there we go. See, Member Paltin's
laughing. I'm old. . . .
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina, please, no cartwheels now.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Only somersaults or backflips. Backflips are okay
too. Go ahead. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was good, Keani.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Wow, Keani, if you was here,  Icould see you doing a backflip.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, not in my dress. But if I was wearing . . .
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, Madam Chair and Members of the Council, thank you
very much for supporting this resolution honoring Hawaii All-Star Cheer. And for the
sake of full disclosure the head coach of Hawaii All-Star Cheer, Mr. Keali'i Molina is my
nephew. And certainly, all of the athletic bloodlines went to him. It didn't go to his
uncle. But we're all so very proud of you and your team's accomplishments. So,
without any further ado. I'm going to ask Keali'i to say a few words, then followed by
any of the team members who would like to say something. Keali'i.
MR. KEALI'I MOLINA: Hello, Council. Thank you so much for this opportunity, in recognizing
our young athletes here on the island of Maui. They don't get a lot of recognition. We
don’t get a lot of time to show off here on the island, but they really do, do it on the
mainland, and they get the chance to do it up there a lot. So, thank you so much for
honoring these kids and giving them the resolution today. I'd like to invite my assistant
coach Madison Murayama to say a couple things, too.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 24
MS. MADISON MURAYAMA: Hi. Thank you. I wanted to say thank you to Mr.,
Councilmember Mike Molina for giving us the recognition. It really means a lot to me.
because I was an athlete, and now I am a coach to Keali‘i Molina. So, being able to
do this with him and being able to bring up these athletes the way that I was raised by
him and his gym is a really big accomplishment for me and for this whole program. So,
thank you to the families of our program as well. We wouldn't have been able to do it
without you. And thank you again.
MS.TEIJASNIFFEN: Hi. My name is Teija Sniffen. I've been cheering for 12 years. And I
would like to say a big thanks to all of you for acknowledging our accomplishments that
we have worked so hard for. And we would not be able to do any of it without your, all
of your support. Thank you so much.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Well, thank you very much Madam Chair, and Keali'i,
and coaches, and all of the parents also who's in the gallery as well. Thank you for
supporting your child. And go get em team. Good job everybody. So, with that said,
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: How about a round of applause?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: And Madam Chair, now, I think myself and Member Rawlins-
Fernandez are going to apply to the Keali'i. . . learn cheerleading now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Send me the application.
CHAIR LEE: I didn't know they had a makule division. Good job, everyone. Fantastic. I think
everybody is in such a good mood today. Let's not take up anything that is going to
make us, bring us down.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next item on the agenda is item "F. Set the Consent
Calendar".
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time, we will set this Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 25
I see none. The Consent Calendar is therefore set.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members
of the public may testify in the Council Chamber, at courtesy testimony sites, or
remotely through the information listed on the meeting agenda.
Individuals in the Chamber may sign up to testify with the staff member located at the
desk in the 8th floor lobby. Individuals at courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
staff at the site. Individuals participating remotely may sign up in the meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you will automatically be added to the
testifier list.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes, with up to one minute to conclude per item. When testifying, please state
your name and the name of any organization you represent, as well as the items on
which you will be testifying. Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media,
Channel 53, or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected
from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person we have signed up to testify is Brad Salter. To be followed by
Jeff Bagshaw.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Salter.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Brad Salter, we see that you are connected to the meeting, but
you're muted on your end, and we cannot unmute you.
Chair, shall we proceed to the next testifier? Chair, the next individual--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 26
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. BRAD SALTER (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159):
I think I. I think I've got it now. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
MR. SALTER: This is Brad Salter. Okay. Thank you. Hafa adai, Councilmembers. lama
board member of the Napili Bay Community Association. And I want to thank the
Council for bringing forth the resolution to investigate the Department of Planning and
the Department of Public Works on the irresponsible permit approvals issued to the
Brown Development in Napili. There are numerous violations by the developer which
have been, I want to say overlooked. I was going to say ignored. But I'm not sure
what's happening by the Planning Director. But the most recent violation cannot be
overlooked and, to me, it's just cause to immediately reinstate the stop-work order.
So, Brown Development's application for an after-the-fact SMA permit, SMA minor
permit, on top of a hotel development, which received an SMA permit falsely alleged
the cost of the work performed on grading and stonewalls was $15,000. And there's a
letter that's been submitted to the Council that was dated February 4, that Mr. Brown
indicated the cost of his development for this wall was $15,000. There's also a letter
from a licensed contractor from the ... group indicating that the actual cost of that wall
is almost a 180, up, close to $200,000. So, the idea of overlooking this, we've been
duped is basically what happens. For a licensed contractor to allege that a cost of a
development is one thing is, it's illegal, you know? I'm an attorney. If I were to make
a misrepresentation to the court voluntarily, I would probably be sanctioned, disbarred
or something.
So. you know, I'd like you guys to look at this, this issue. It seems to me that DSA's
qualified license professional engineer Lance Nakamura has a duty to address this
misrepresentation to the County by a licensed contractor. How can he continue to work
if he's going to make misrepresentations that are likely intended to save him fines? So,
like I say, I would like to just encourage the Council to forward this investigation and
issue a stop-work order while this investigation is going on.
And I know this is difficult for Councilmembers, you know? We all have friends in the
Planning Department. These are our associates, and we work together. But you all
took an oath to protect the citizens of Maui and uphold the laws. And 1 ask you to
please do your duty. And thank you for, for looking after the citizens of Maui. 1 know
that something was said earlier today that you were going to took after us. Please do
so. Thank you very much for your time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 27
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Jeff
Bashaw, testifying on Committee Report 22-47. To be followed by Jay Penniman.
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW. HAWAI I DIVISION OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE (testifying on
Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good morning, County Council. This is Jeff Bagshaw. I'm with the Hawaii Division of
Forestry and Wildlife. And while I often speak for myself. I'm actually also speaking
today for Maui Nui Division of Forestry and Wildlife.
We are in strong support of Bill 21, CD1, not the amended version proposed by the
Corporation Counsel, for many reasons. The Corporation Counsel amendments
effectively pull the teeth out of this bill. Specifically, trying to rely on kelvin as a
governance for what kind of lighting is installed just isn't adequate. It's much better to
focus as the original bill does on wavelength. And it also has so many exemptions and
temporaries in it, that it just takes the teeth out of everything, specifically, exempting
anything installed prior to this ordinance happening.
Just as I've, as we've testified before, just as  areminder, our responsibility for our
agency is to provide freshwater. It, this isn't just about forest birds and forests, but
those seabirds fertilize our native forests, which generate the freshwater that supports
everyone who lives on the island. So, it's, we can't just have it as business as usual.
If climate change in the last years hasn't taught us that we can't keep going, you know,
with business as usual, now is the time when we have to make some changes.
So, while we worked on lands that we're responsible for, these animals travel beyond
our boundaries. We have to really recognize that we share the island with all of these
native species. I've heard it recently in, in another meeting of government, said that
oh, those native species don't occur here. But they do, and we have to remember that
it's always possible as the islands northwest of Kauai shrink from sea-level rise, we've
got to make more room for these here at home. So, once again, strong support for
Bill 21.
And on a personal note, I want to thank Council Sugimura for the resolution recognizing
Patsy Mink, and also for Ms. Rawlins' comments. We all dance a little higher when
we're all allowed to dance. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 28
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. I'm glad to see Jeff Bagshaw here. And coming
from your perspective from the department, do you have data that you can share with
us? I think that's very important what you said. So, if you do, if we can request for it.
And you can send it later, if you don't have it.
MR. BAGSHAW. I can send it later, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you. Great. Appreciate it.
MR. BAGSHAW: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members, for clarification? If not, thank you very much for your
testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Jay Penniman,
in the Chambers, testifying on Committee Report 22-47. To be followed by Christopher
Fishkin.
MR. JAY PENNIMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Aloha, kakakiako [sic] and hafa adai, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins, Members of the
Council. It's been a chicken-skin morning. Real appreciation for Member Sugimura's
resolution in recognition of Title IX, Patsy Mink, and for Vice-Chair Rawlins' comments.
We all are severely, importantly impacted by Title IX. When I started this work back in
the earlier days in the '70s, the professional organization that I worked with was started
by a group of men. That organization, the Pacific Seabird Group is now largely led by
women. My organization has nine staff members now, six of them are women, three
are men, much as the Council. And we thank the Council for the work that's been done
and now, especially, the CARE'S Committee on the Bill 21, which we are completely in
support of the bill as the Committee presented it.
1 want to refer back to the last resolution that was made here in the Council, No. 22-135,
recognizing May 20 as Endangered Species Day, and just excerpting a few items out
of it. I'm working on the ground with my crew to restore seabird populations, and the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 29
impacts of lights on those seabird populations are being addressed in this bill.
"WHEREAS, the Council recognizes the longevity of our native species is directly
related to environmental health, and the preservation of remaining habitat is critical [sic]
to the survival of our unique native flora and fauna." Bill 21 addresses this. This is the
work of the Council. We appreciate that, that this is what, how it is. We are on the
ground. The Council is setting the framework for the work that we do.
"WHEREAS, Maui's native species and their habitats also provide important cultural
resources for native Hawaiians, and include historic traditional practices such as
gathering native plants for hula, medicinal uses, carving, weaving, and ceremonies that
continue today." Bill 21 addresses this.
The short wavelength light content in the lights that we have today are disrupting our
native species. They're disrupting our habitat. They're taking the night-time skies, the
dark skies away from us. The suggested amendments, or changes, to the bill that refer
to kelvin, as was referred to by an earlier testifier, do not address the short wavelength
content of the lights that we use. The formula that has been used on Hawaii Island,
which is in Bill 21 does address this. It reduces the short wavelength content. And we
would appreciate the Council moving this to an ordinance. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you for your testimony. Questions, Members? I don't see any. Thank
you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Christopher Fishkin, testifying on Resolutions 22-158 and 22-159. To be followed by
Jason Economou.
MR. CHRISTOPHER FISHKIN (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159L
Can you hear me. Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Yes, we can.
MR. FISHKIN; Okay. Sorry, my video is not seemingly working. I'm testifying on both
resolutions simultaneously. Chair. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Chair
and elected Councilmembers. I wish to testify how important it is that Councilmember
King's resolution for a formal investigation into Departments Planning and Public Works
be in the hands of a Chair and Committee, which truly cares about the necessity and
value of this investigation to the County.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 30
While Councilmember Paltin's resolution for eminent domain appears to resolve the
issue of the Brown Development, it tries to "fix the problem by rewarding the bad
actors". It pays off the developer with taxpayer funds and whitewashes the alleged
violations of Director McLean and Public Works as if these alleged violations never
happened with no determinations made and no accountability. It's just all pau. "PAD"
is my new acronym during this election cycle for "Politics as usual". Just make it all go
way so no one has to pay. But of course, that's not true, because the County taxpayer
always has to pay for the bad faith actions of the developer and misdeed ... the
Administration officials whenever they historically have abused their power and acted
outside their authority.
Might I add that they also historically have done so with the support of your attorneys
in the Department of Corp. Counsel. It's a true case study of unlawful action by County
Administration officials. The thousands of uncollected developer deferral agreements
through Public Works, developments in Montana Beach, Olowalu, Palama Drive, the
case of Christopher Salem versus Mayor Victorino and Director McLean, and now, the
Greg Brown Development.
Whereas the resolution for eminent domain tries to just make the Brown, Brown
Development go away, Ms. King's resolution empowers this Council to govern, to use
its Charter powers to get to the bottom of it, so that these recurring incidents stop
recurring over and over again, costing taxpayers millions and millions of dollars in
litigation, creating safety issues and harming both the local, physical, and Hawaiian
cultural environment.
So, the eminent domain resolution makes me wonder, has its author already been in
communication with Director McLean, Corp. Counsel, and even Greg Brown about it
to help them Houdini their way out of it, while misusing the Hawaiian community as a
good cover? I don't know the intent behind that resolution. Does it require an alleged
unlawful development in Napili to create a necessary Hawaiian cultural education
center? Or is this just the usual way to give developers and officials a way out without
anyone taking responsibility for anything? Is that what we really want to model to our
young people interested in politics?
The reso for a formal investigation is good government. It's all about the public interest.
The Council, through this reso, provides checks and balances to an Administration
which directors have more in common with developers than with the County taxpayer.
And all too often, as has been demonstrated historically, serve the developer's interests
at the expense of the public's interest. Remember, these County directors are in a
revolving door with the development community. A formal investigation is an
opportunity for the Council to be properly informed and educated, to be proactive, to
mitigate present and future harm and liability, and to govern effectively for the people
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 31
who depend upon you to use all the tools at your disposal, that is the powers of the
Charter, to get to the facts and then consider what you want do about them.
This resolution, is that my three minutes, ma'am?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, it is. Could you conclude, please?
MR. FISHKIN: Well, I have another three minutes. I'm, I'm on both resolutions, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, proceed.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you, ma'am. This resolution was proposed to Councilmember King by
Joshua Downer of the Napili Bay Community Association when it became clear that
this Administration appeared to be acting in contravention of County rules and
ordinances in support of a developer who had made false representations to procure
both an SMA exemption and a building permit. Today, in written testimony, the Council
has before the general contractor's assessment of the purported $15,000 valuation by
Greg Brown, which is almost 20 times that. His false representation to minimize fines
and penalties means that Mr. Brown defrauds the County for a second time, while
Director McLean keeps this Council in the dark about it.
The assessment is included in written testimony by the Chairman of the Board of the
Napili Bay Community Association. And there is additional evidence provided by Pat
Lindquist, President of the Napili Bay and Beach Foundation. This kind of obfuscation
and the recent scathing audit of the Planning Department cries out for a formal
investigation to determine who is really working for whom.
A final point, a developer who acts in bad faith cannot prevail in court, even if the
County permitted the development. Please keep that in mind. The law in the Pacific
jurisdiction is clear on this. So, as Councilmember King has proposed, we must do our
due diligence and let the facts lead the Council to make appropriate findings and
determinations through a well-executed formal investigation.
I wish to thank Councilmember King for her commitment to getting to the facts wherever
they may lead. I believe that this inspires our youth, who aspire to actively engage in
government, that we have leaders who have the courage and determination to create
a clean and honest County government, which we can be proud of. And while this
resolution might normally end up in the GREAT Committee, if the GREAT Committee
has too much on his plate, then perhaps the Chair would consider putting this important
resolution in the competent hands of Councilmember King and the CARE Committee.
Thank you very much for your time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 32
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? I don't see any hands. So, thank you very
much for your testimony.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Jason
Economou. To be followed by Sam Small.
MR. JASON ECONOMOU, REALTORS ASSOCIATION OF MAUI [testifying on Bill
No. 109 (202211:
Good morning. Thank you for this opportunity to testify. My name is Jason Economou
and I am speaking on behalf of the Realtors Association of Maui, in my capacity as
their government affairs director.
Today, I would like to testify in support of Bill 109, which is the grants for home
restoration. You know, we talk a lot about action for housing, and public-private
partnerships in this community, and this is an example of how we can take meaningful
action, and have partnerships within our community, with folks, who have homes, that
just need some work to be habitable. And this is  abig step to bringing inventory that
exists back online for the people who need it the most. And it also creates an
opportunity for these individuals who have low-income but might have a home that they
inherited, to start building equity and to start housing other people in their families.
If there’s one critique I can give to this bill,  Iwould suggest perhaps expanding it to
allow for rehabilitation of ohana units in addition to primary homes. This way, these
property owners can have a home for themselves and perhaps also provide a home
for other renters, or family members within the community that need one. You know,
this is, this is a great, smart piece of legislation that brings the community into, into a
position to actually help solve the housing crisis with our government. So, I appreciate
this legislation. And this, this will just improve neighborhoods as it comes online. So,
thank you for that. That's all. I don't, I don't have anything else.
CHAIR LEE: That's it? Okay, I see some hands up for questions.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Economou. I don't have
a question. I just wanted to let you know that I think it might, I'm not sure if it's your
mic, or your connection, but your voice is like two to three octaves lower.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 33
MR. ECONOMOU: Oh. Oh, I might have finally hit manhood.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Economou. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments? If not. thank you very much, Mr. Economou.
MR. ECONOMOU: Thank you. Take care.
CHAIR LEE: You have a beautiful radio voice.
MR. ECONOMOU: My next career.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Sam
Small, testifying on Resolutions 22-158 and 159. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
Mr. Small, we cannot hear you. We do see that you're unmuted on your send, so it
might-
MR. SAM SMALL (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159):
Yeah, how's that? Is that better?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We can hear you now.
MR. SMALL: Okay. Thank you. Sorry about that. Allow me to put on my Bernie Sanders
glasses and give you my best impression. It's an honor to participate in the democratic
process. And it is, you know. But you got to understand how frustrating it is for
somebody like myself, who is paying attention to this stuff and many others. You know,
you just heard Christopher Fishkin laid out a whole program of, and everything that he
says is, it's true and backed up by documents and facts.
We brought the Greg Brown debacle to the attention of the Administration over 18
months ago. And nobody's done anything until now. Thank god it's election season,
you know. And, and, and thank you, Greg Brown, for a project that embodies so much
obvious abuse that it cannot be ignored. It's a poster child for everything that's broken
in Title 19, and in the interplay between Public Works and Planning. And that has
allowed developers for decades to exploit this community. Our rights are violated
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 34
because SMA is supposed to guarantee that we have an input into projects, like Greg
Brown's, so that it, when it goes beyond what is appropriate for the community, our
voices are heard.
You know, Josh Downer had a hearing at the BVA. And Brian Bilberry, the County's
attorney presented language out of the Charter, and out of Title 19 and Title 16, in an
extremely disingenuous way because he only quoted sections of the relevant
language. He cherry-picked it and he was able to shut the conversation down on
process, not on content, but on the process. And because Mr. Downer was able to
make a presentation, at least, one . . . Chair, one of the, the, the board members
acknowledged, she's like, wow, if a developer commits fraud on their exemption
application and they receive the exemption, how will anybody know? And that's what
happened with Greg Brown. Greg Brown never deserved the exemption that he
received.
Now, this, this notion of eminent domain. Boy, you know, it's a creative idea. I share
the concern that it is, you know, on surface it could just be a payday for Greg Brown.
You know, he listed that project for sale for $14 million. And eminent domain, that's,
you know, fair market value. Had this Council taken action 18 months ago, when we
first brought it to everybody's attention, that project would be worth a lot less money.
So, if-
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Small, can you please conclude?
MR. SMALL: Okay, that was my first three minutes. I'll go into my second three minutes. I
didn't hear the bell. Thank you. Is that okay?
CHAIR LEE: That's fine.
MR. SMALL; Thank you. Had that project been stopped 18 months ago, and eminent domain
comes into play now, the value of that project would be a heck of a lot less. So, that
18-month has cost the County potentially millions of dollars because of inaction. And
would, if the County does secure that property, you're going to leave it, you know, so,
so high? Or is the, is the, is the structure going to be razed to the ground and a new
structure created? Who's going to pay for that? Or will it be shortened? Can you rip
off the top floor? Don't know. But the project, as it stands, is in stark contrast to
everything that the community plan dictates unity and consistency in design for that
community, and that's where our rights were violated by the exemption.
A lot of this, again. I'm thankful for Greg Brown for bringing all of these issues to the
surface, because now we have an opportunity with the audit that clearly states that
Title 19 is a disaster and needs to be reconfigured. We have the experts at hand. The
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 35
work has already been done to reconstruct Title 19, so that it serves the community
and not developers, lawyers, and corrupt, a few,  afew corrupt individuals within the
Administration.
So, please launch the investigation. If it's a hot potato, you know, and. and, and Council
Chairs don't want to touch it, well, you know, its election season, so, you know, you do
what you think is best. I think it's best to be proactive and to show the community that
you care more about the community than you care about special interests. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Mr. Small.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lucienne
de Naie, testifying on Committee Reports 22-47 and 22-52; Resolutions 22-157 and
22-159; and Bills 100, 107, 109, and 110 (2022). To be followed by Leina'ala Ley.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-47 & 22-52: Resolution
Nos: 22-157 & 22-159: and Bill Nos. 100 (2022), 107 (2022), 108 (2022), 109 (2022),
& 110 (2022):
Mahalo and thank you for this opportunity to testify on some very important matters for
your consideration today. I'll start with Bill 21. And I am also speaking on this bill, I
didn't list it, on behalf of the Sierra Club Maui Group. We are very strong support of
the original version that has been worked on with the great patience and labor by the
CARE Committee and put forward to you folks after all of that labor. We do not support
the revised version that came from the County Corp. Counsel's Office. I, 1 don't know
if it's appropriate to remind you folks, but the same Corp. Counsel's Offices advised
you that the County did not possibly settle, or otherwise disengage from legal
proceedings about the Lahaina Wastewater Plant. They were wrong, and they
sometimes are wrong. They're not bad people, but sometimes these things, as they
are put forth, are not the best guidance, and this is one of these times.
We do have a very similar bill on the Big Island. It is time for Maui to step up. Our
native wildlife are a very, very important part of the ecological cycle. You know, as
Mr. Bagshaw mentioned, these birds actually fertilize our native forests. All of our
forest birds do. And the decimation of our native species really leaves gaps in how our
ecosystems can function. Lighting is critically important. We humans think that we
know everything, but we don't. And we do need to see things from the perspective of
some of our fellow species. So, please support this bill.
I will move on to Bill 52 [sic], which is about the very unfortunate idea to allow
apartments in the M-2 zones. Please file this bill. It is not a well thought out proposal.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 36
But we have M-2 zones for just that reason, to have their noxious activities go on and
not be in residential areas. This sort of defeats the purpose. We do have plenty of
empty spaces that are not M-2 zones. But our M-2 zones, unless they are completely
remediated should be reserved for those kinds of activities that we originally planned
for.
I will also move on to a few other interesting items on your agenda. Item 157, 22-157.
This is being referred. But it's the donation of land in Hana by the Bio-Logical Capital
folks. When I served on the General Plan Advisory Committee, one of the real
concerns that came up when we talked about the Hana community section was the
lack of available land for affordable housing, for parks and open spaces, for, you know,
everything because it's a one-horse town. Most of the land is owned by one
corporation. So, if we have an opportunity to get  adonation of land, we definitely
should pursue it and have some options. I'm assuming it does not come with a lot of
strings attached. That wasn't, you know, delineated in the resolution that is putting this
forth. But definitely the major landowner in Hana should be available to donate some
land for the public good and it should be pursued.
Moving on to 159. I concur with the previous folks, who testified. This is just a mess
and it's a mess that was created through misrepresentation. Unfortunately,
misrepresentation in plans to public agencies is not uncommon. It's not every
application, but many applications do misrepresent what's really going on, the real
nature of the environment, the real nature of the activities. And I definitely support
there being a thorough investigation. If we're interested in bringing down the costs of
truly affordable housing, we need a more streamlined per, permitting process. That
means we need to identify where the loopholes are and make sure that people are not
going through these loopholes, so we don't have to penalize all of the good-faith efforts
because of the few loophole people. So, let's get to the bottom of this.
I commend Councilmember King for putting this out. Citizens have talked about it for
years. I've had people on my TV show years ago bring up the fact that there are these
unfulfilled roadway commitments, and other commitments that then the taxpayers get
saddled with. This is just one more incidents of where things are portrayed one way
and then what happens is different.
1 will move on to the bills for first reading and second reading. First of all, Bill 107...
with what our affordable housing sales prices are. We definitely do need to adjust
these for our local economy. This is a minor step, but a good first step. I would also,
I did sign up to testify on Bill 108, but let's get real, you know. Every day middle-class
people are living in their cars because they are being kicked out of the places they live.
The, you know, the place has sold. I mean, next door neighbor every day has people
posting my landlord has told us we have to leave. Does anyone know a place for rent?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 37
And if you can’t find a place to rent, you stay in your car until you can. and you stay
with friends. So, we, we need to make it possible to have safe places for people, whose
only recourse right now until we can fix this problem, is their vehicles, and make it safe.
On to item No. 109, the grants for home restoration. This, too, is a really important
win-win. Many people do inherit properties that need a lot of work. I inherited a
property from my cousin that needed a lot of work. I co-inherited with all my other
cousins, and we just had to sell it. We, we could not investment in bringing it, you
know, up, up to par and renting it. But if people inherit family properties and can invest
in them through low-interest loans and be part of the solution and then also have an
income stream, that's good. That's good for our community. It's good for our housing.
It's a small fix. But many, many small parts can add up to a greater whole. So, thank
you for your support of that.
And on to item No. 110, you know, giving tax advantages to veterans who have been
either killed in active duty or grievously wounded and disabled in active duty and their
surviving spouses. You know, veterans are often promised everything, and then very
little of it gets delivered. If there's something we can do locally that says, you know,
we do appreciate that you have made this sacrifice, your family has made this sacrifice,
we should. And thank you. I believe that was Councilmember Molina who put that
forward. And once again, it's a small step. Maybe it will affect 100 people here on
Maui, but it's a good step. So, thank you for your support of that.
And the last item is No. 100. This is really an interesting concept, naming parks after
families in the area. Obviously, we do have some parks named after families. We
have Baldwin Beach Park. We have Fleming Beach Park. But these are, you know,
well-known pillars of our community. We also have Haycraft Beach Park, which was
named after retired Colonel Haycraft, whose family lived next door to this little parking
lot the County set up back in the early 1980s. And he and his family and some
neighbors got permission from A&B to actually create a park around it. And i think it
was the first citizen-initiated park in modern history in Maui any way. Probably there
was some way back in the '40s and '50s where, you know, communities just made little
parks in different areas.
But this is a great practice, you know, honoring those who have really contributed to
our community, and their names can be appropriately remembered. And people in the
neighborhood can decide, you know, if that's the right thing to do, to name a park for a
person who has contributed a lot to the well-being of that community. So, thank you
for supporting that and for all the hard work you are doing and for those great
ceremonial resolutions this morning. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 38
CHAIR LEE; Thank you for your testimony. Members, do we have questions? I see none.
Thank you, oh, we have one.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify that currently we can
name parks after people, like, I think it's DT Flemings, or HA Baldwin, and this one is
letting it be named after the family. Because we tried to do the family and they said
that wasn't part of the Code. So, that's why we're changing it, or adding this on. So,
the parks currently named by, after people, but we're trying to move to families. Is,
that's your understanding, right?
MS. DE NAIE: Yes. And that is important. I mean, often, it is named after, like Haycraft Park
is named after Colonel Haycraft. His whole family worked on it, you know. And, and
we have . . . families that do work in unison to take care of places. And that should be
honored. And it's a shame that we're so tightly restricted that it can only be a single
individual, so this is great.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Lucienne. Have a great
weekend.
So, Mr. Clerk, I'm going to take a break right now. And how many testifiers do we have
left?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currently 13 more testifiers signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Members, any objections to taking a 15-minute recess?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Or at least till, tilM 1:00 a.m. Okay. No objections. So, ordered. Recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:47 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 11:09 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS
JOHNSON AND KING, EXCUSED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21.2022
Page 39
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of June 21, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, let's continue with testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, continuing with testimony. The next individual signed up
to testify is Leina'ala Ley. To be followed by Joshua Downer.
LEINA'ALA ley (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Chair and Members. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Leina'ala
Ley. I'm an attorney with Earthjustice. I just sent in my lobbyist registration yesterday,
so I hope ... I'm testifying . . .
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me? Excuse me? Could you hold on a second? We seem to have
some sound problems.
Mr. Clerk, where is that feedback coming from?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, 1 don't believe the issue is in the Chamber. I believe,
Ms. Ley, it might be on your end. Your microphone sounds like distant and fuzzy. It's,
it’s garbled, that's the word that's being used, garbled.
MS. LEY: Is this better? Yeah? Okay. I'll continue. I'm presenting testimony on behalf of
Conservation Council for Hawaii. And . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wait. It's not better. It's not better.
Ask her to turn her video off, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ms. Ley, yes, your microphone is still having issues.
MS. LEY: I'll turn it off.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Can she make it louder?
MS. LEY: Yeah, I can. Does that help at all, or should I try and call back on . . .
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Your microphone, you're still coming through garbled. What you
could try and do is call in instead, and that way you can use your phone microphone
and that might come through clearer.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 40
MS. LEY: Okay. Is that number on the agenda?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes. Yes, that information is posted on the agenda.
MS. LEY: Okay. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Chair, while Ms. Ley is calling in, shall we proceed to the
next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Joshua
Downer, testifying on Resolution 22-158, and 22-159.
MR. JOSHUA DOWNER (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159):
Aloha. Can you hear me? That's wonderful. So, I am, my name is Joshua Downer. I
am part of the Napili Bay Community Association. And I am here to testify about the
resolutions put forward by Member King and Member Paltin. Mainly, I just want to
thank both Members for taking the courageous act, and listening to the citizens of Napili
and taking, proposing decisive action to take on this corrupt development.
I'll speak first to the resolution proposed by Member King. Our organization has been
in dialogue with Member King for a number of months to put forward this resolution that
would really represent a milestone for the Council in exercising its powers to
independently investigate an aspect of the Administration that is not performing the
laws and implementing the laws of the County. It has been our desire from the
beginning that litigation would not be necessary. We think that there is a, a really a
sad cycle in this County of illegal action that then the citizens have to bring suit against
the County in order to stop. I'm a citizen of Maui County. I love Maui County. I don't
want to sue Maui County. This body represents the people. We believe that it's the
citizens' representative that should represent our interests to take action when the laws
are violated. So, this resolution is really a remarkable step by this Council in response
to the appeals of the people of Napili and all over the island to, to take action.
And I also just urge the Council to appoint a special counsel, a special lawyer, to assist
with this investigation. Corporation Counsel does not have the independence to assist
with this investigation. I have dear friends in Corporation Counsel. I respect them as
professionals. However, Corporation Counsel, as, in this matter specifically, has been
doing the bidding of the Planning Department, and does not have the independence to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 41
advise this Council in this investigation. A special counsel, however, would be able to
aid this Council tremendously in conducting an investigation, including, if necessary,
appealing to a court for injunctive relief to reinstate the stop-work orders or taking other
action as necessary to rid the community of this, or to expose what we believe is well-
documented misconduct as part of this process.
I'd also like to speak to Member Paitin's resolution to seize the property through
eminent domain. You know, I had a different response to this than some of my friends
in the community who testified earlier. I don't know Member Paltin, I know her by
reputation, by her mutual friends, to be a dedicated public servant, to care deeply about
the citizens of Napili and about the rights of the citizens in Napili. And my take with
this resolution is that Member Paltin, you've heard the appeals of your neighbors and
of, of your citizens, your constituents. And that is a decisive action to make sure that
this project, unlawful project does not continue on in, you know, in its current form, and
it's reappropriated for the benefits of the community. So, thank you for that. I believe
that in connection to the investigation proposed by Member King, that we can both
expose the wrongdoing that has taken place to allow this project to get where it is, as
well as reverse course and make sure this property is never used for a hotel in Napili.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Downer.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I believe Ms. Ley has returned. I'm unmuting the phones
that are connected to the meeting now. Ms. Downer [sic], are you present?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ms. Ley.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Ms. Ley. Oh, I'm so sorry, Mr. Downer. I'm speaking to
Ms. Ley. Apologies. Ms. Ley, are you, have you returned to the meeting?
MS. LEY: 1 have. Can you hear me? Are you able to hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we hear you.
MS. LEY: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question. Member Paltin, you have a question real fast?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering if she's still connected by computer, if she
wanted to turn on her camera while she talks into the phone.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, make that suggestion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 42
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I do not see Ms. Ley connected to the BlueJeans meeting via
her computer anymore. I only see her connected via phone.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Sorry about that.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ms. Ley. you may proceed with testimony.
MS. LEY: I apologize for the technical difficulties. Again, my name is Leina'ala Ley. I am an
attorney with Earthjustice. I recently registered as a lobbyist, and I am testifying today
on behalf of Conservation Council for Hawaii and Center for Biological Diversity. Our
testimony is in strong support of the Bill, Bill 21, as drafted by the CARE Committee,
which provide the community with clear, simple direction on how to achieve seabird
friendly lighting that will help reduce harm to our native seabirds.
The proposed ordinance is consistent with the Hawaii County's lighting ordinance,
which has been in place for ten years, joined in practice that the blue light content
requirement is straightforward and easy to accomplish. And to further enable easy
compliance, there's a three-year phase-in period. And during this time, of course, the
Public Works Department would need to develop rules that would serve as a reference
and resource for the community to comply with the lighting requirements. So. as
drafted, we think this is a win-win, both for the community, as well as endangered
seabirds.
As some of you likely know, the largest breeding colony for one of the three imperiled
species that would benefit from this bill, the Hawaiian Petrel is on Haleakala Crater.
And the next largest colony is on Lanai. And these are the last remaining nesting
stronghold for the species, which has disappeared from many of the other islands. And
just emphasizes the significance of Maui County for the recovery of this and the other
seabird species that would benefit. So, thank you very much for your consideration of
this bill.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: I see Member Sugimura, then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have a, actually, I have a question for you. So, this
lighting bill will not be taken up today, correct? Cause I can save questions for later,
when it does come up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 43
CHAIR LEE; This lighting bill will be postponed.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Postponed.
CHAIR LEE: Recommended to be. . .
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so I’ll hold off. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just was wondering, you know, since Ms. Ley is kind of a
lawyer, what, what about the State Airports and Harbor part? If she read the--
CHAIR LEE; Is that a question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, if she read the Corp. Counsel thing, memo about the
State Harbors and Airports portion of their comment. But you think the--
MS. LEY; I did not review that specific, is that an exemption that's being proposed?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, never mind. I thought that's what you were talking about,
cause you said CD1, drafted by the CARE Committee. Nevermind. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, questions on testimony. Members? If not, thank you, Ms., Ms. Ley.
MS. LEY: Thank you. Sorry again for the technical difficulties.
CHAIR LEE: No problem.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Sean
Lester, testifying on Bill 110 (2022). To be followed by Lisa Darcy.
MR. SEAN LESTER [testifying on Resolution No. 22-159 and Bill No. 110 (2022)1:
Aloha kakou. Can you hear me, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning.
MR. LESTER: Good morning. Good morning. Council.  Ialso wanted to speak on
Reso. 22-159 as well. And I want to go ahead and get that out of the way first. I, I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 44
think that this is a really well-drafted bill worked with, with the community. And I highly
recommend, and back 22-159, in regards to all of its components.
The main reason I'm here today is as a 6-year active war veteran, and I want to really
thank Councilmember and also veteran Mike Molina for putting forward the bill for the
ordinance. As we were reviewing things along the way, we saw a bill, and I did some
research and found out that this, this bill had been put into effect, it looks like after
Vietnam, to help out families that had been disabled through that terrible war where we
lost 56,000 of our, of our people and over 300,000 wounded, and countless, over a
million that were disabled. It turned out that the 100 percent mark is, is quite difficult
to reach. And we reached out to, to the VA and other areas, and found that anything
above 70 percent is considered severely disabled.
And after looking into this bill and understanding the dire straits that our community has
here, you know, I, I've been blessed with the ability of, of, you know, in my political, as
well as other ways, walking door-to-door for, for literally thousands of homes here. And
to see the, the challenges that our local people have, just to make ends meet, this bill
will allow women, whose husbands have died in service, and to be able to go back in
if they can show this lower number of 70, 80, or 90 percent can actually immediately
get their, their bill lowered. And this is something that we don't know how many people
this can help here, but it may be something that can help desperate families as
veterans, as very well was said by Lucienne de Naie. You know, we’re promised a lot,
but we come back with a lot of challenges from the time that we spent in the military.
And this is also a way that, that the Council can help these people, especially, Hana,
you know, Molokai, we need, I lived Keanae for many years and I, I know the
challenges at times coming up with the land taxes. So, this will be something that could
really help people.
There is one thing I would like to mention. As the bill is written, on Section 3, it says
this ordinance takes effect on January 1, 2023. If that's done, under the standard
system, it would take 18 months for that to kick into effect. And with all of the plight of
the, the new, the increased cost of living, I would highly recommend that this be moved
back to December 1, 2022. And, and that the Finance Department be asked to work
with that. And also, the possibility of asking for that to be setup to, to go into effect as
a one-time special case in January 1, 2023, for the people who have put in forthis. So,
thank you so much for your time.
And I'd also, I know, we went up to a lot of veterans and talked to them about this, and
went to the State Department of Veterans Affairs, and they were ecstatic about it. But
they're in court right now. For two years, the courts have been held up in their end
fighting for the rights of our local veterans in court today. But they asked me to please
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 45
pass on how pleased they were to see this moving forward in Council. Thank you very
much for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair, in your, thank you, Mr. Lester, for your
testimony. I was wondering, in your research that you did on this, if you came up on
how much people this would affect and the net?
MR. LESTER: Well, yeah, I, we've, we've got about, we’ve got about, gosh, probably 3 or
4,000 veterans here, I think, in the County total. But as far as veteran-related things,
you're probably, it's from, from everything I can see, we may be looking at maybe a
couple hundred people, maybe a little more. It just depends on the widows and that
side of things. So, I think, you know, you just lowered the, you just went to a $200,000
exemption and went from 270 or 250 something down to 20, I think it's 206. This is
going to have a much smaller, this is going to be fairly small. It’s just a, it's going to
help a few families. But you know, it's, I don't think it's going to have a major impact
on anything from that side. I'm hoping that if this works, when this works here, to take
it and try to get it over to Big Island and also to Kauai and onto Oahu. Try to set it up
as statewide on a county-level.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Lester.
MR. LESTER: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Lisa
Darcy, testifying on Bills 100 and 108 (2022). To be followed by Bob Adams.
MS. LISA DARCY. SHARE YOUR MANA [testifying on Bill Nos. 100 (2022) and 108 (2022)1:
Good morning, Chair and good morning. Council.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. DARCY: My name is Lisa Darcy. I'm the founder of Share Your Mana. I am also a
commissioner on Healing Solutions for Homelessness. And it was a little hard to
concentrate on my testimony this morning, because as somebody who grew up in a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 46
household where there were very clear male and female roles, being invited in 1988 to
be a part of the very first Division I Rutgers University soccer team brought back a lot
of memories. So, mahalo. Councilmember Sugimura, and everybody, for reminding
us where our courage needs to come from as men and as women. So, thank you very
much for that.
I'm here to testify on Bill 108, no surprise to anyone,
recommendations. One is under 10.76.076, B.1. Change the times from 10:00 p.m.
to 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. So, expand the hours allowing for time for people
to settle in and to get eight hours of sleep.
And I have some
B.2., allow flexibility for entering and exiting under the discretion of the overseeing
agency and staff.
B.3., do not lock the gates. Instead, provide traffic construction horses.
And then under Section 3, yes, I have this written and I will send it, remove number 7,
8, 10, 11, and 12. And 12 is important if you need to do any community education,
which I think is where the strength of Share Your Mana has come in over the last couple
of years, is we can create physical structures. And what Share Your Mana does is
really create the emotional structures and those go unseen. So, I think that's really
important to recognize that for number 12. And then, under Section 3, add other illegal
substances. I think that's under number 16. Those are my immediate comments on
Bill 108.
The other thing is I had wanted to make comments on Bill 100. So, I will go ahead and
conclude and see if any questions, and then I can, or do you want me to just go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: You can just go ahead.
MS. DARCY: Mahalo. Okay, so when this was, I was listening to the County Council speak
to this, maybe was like a month ago, couple of weeks ago. And 1 was really struck
when I, when I left for the rest of the day, pondering changing the name of the
community center to represent somebody in the community. And I don’t know why,
everybody was all excited about this, and I, something didn't sit right with me, So, I, I
slept on it, and I talked to a couple people.
And I, I really feel strongly that everything that I'm learning about the State and the
history of the State, that it's really important,  Ithink, to keep names very clearly
associated with Hawaiiana and either with locations. And I am no expert on this, so
apologies if I am mis-stepping culturally. It just seemed that I wouldn't ever want any
of these to be kind of contests on public, you know, like popularity or I don't know. I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 47
think it just need, names need to really stay with, with the culture of this, this State. It's
so, I just feel like it's so important with the healing and the growth of this community.
So anyway, there are my comments. So, I actually. I'm not in support of personal
names, maybe other than direct descendants or something like that of, of actual people
who are born and raised and have very, very long ties to this, to this, this land. So,
those are my comments. Mahaio plenty.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Lisa. Questions, Members, on either item? Okay. Who had their
hand up first? It was either Member Paltin, Member Sinenci?
Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: i had my hand up. Thank you. Thank you. Chair. Thank you,
Ms. Darcy. I had a question on the first one. When you spoke about allowing flexibility
in and out to be on the person overseeing the site, that wasn't just like sole discretion,
right? You mean like there would be a standard basic and then flexibility from that, or?
Cause I had heard some complaints about procedures at the pallet, shelter place that
they were given sole discretion and the rules weren't posted. And so, there was some
who-who about that. So, I just was wondering when you say flexibility, how do we
determine that, you know, it's fair and safe, but then flexible, so that it's not rigid? I just
was, that was, I guess my concern is like when it's the sole discretion of the person
overseeing it, sometimes it's not known by the people there. Or did you mean like
some, within certain guidelines?
MS. DARCY: Yeah, thank you. So, you are, the Council's baseline is probably reflective of
what you understand with the community that's going on with the pallets. And before
that, of course, we had extraordinarily successful community that was governed on
Amala Place. And I was an integral part of that. We had the big do not pass traffic
sign. People were signed up every night to actually watch people coming in and out.
That was all going on and you never got a chance to actually see a successful
community run. And that's why Share Your Mana is really moving forward with all of
this.
I would not, I would not oversee a community the way that it is being done currently.
That, you know, it would make some significant changes. So, we actually were able,
with just the, the Department of Transportation had like a five-foot do not, no traffic.
And then, in the morning we would move it in and move it back. And this happened in
relation to the, the workers who were at the sewage treatment plant. So, there were
couple of different moving parts that happened successfully, and yet, we were able to
maintain who was coming in and out. When the Department of Transportation took
that back, when the dumpsters were taken out. when the water was taken, the, the fire
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21.2022
Page 48
hydrant was closed, when all of those normal supports were taken away, that's when
you saw all the problems come up.
So, prior to that, it actually functioned beautifully in terms of considering all of that. And
you never heard of any. You didn't hear of any situations. There were definitely with
the Department of the Water, they were, they were struggling just with the amount of
people there and their discomfort. I completely understand that. But those taken away,
it functioned really well. We had security shirts that community members had
purchased, and people wore. We had community meetings to discuss who was coming
in and out in locations, and noise and music and all of that. And it governed very well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, so, basically, flexibility within the context of discussions in
what works and what doesn't is what you're saying?
MS. DARCY: Yeah. If I. if Share Your Mana were to oversee that, I would personally be very
uncomfortable locking any gate in any capacity. I don’t function well when anybody’s
locked in or locked out. And I don't know that anybody would want to be locked in or
locked out. And yeah, there are people that have very serious health conditions. You
wouldn't want to impede anybody getting in and out. Yeah, there's just, there's a lot of
reasons that I just feel it’s unsafe to lock the gates.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you for clarifying that.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. My clarifying question is on the
second thing you testified on. Aloha, Ms. Darcy. Mahalo for your testimony. So, you
shared that from what you learned naming facilities, or County, yeah, I guess it's
facilities after people is inconsistent with the Hawaiian culture?
MS. DARCY: I, I don't know that it’s inconsistent. It just, I just think the way, it just seems
beautiful to continue to honor the, the locations. And, and from what I can see and feel
from the people that 1 know, who don't come to these meetings or speak up, that is
something that they are comfortable with, and it would, I don't, I think it would
encourage them more to feel a part of their community. I don't know if that makes
sense, but?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that clarification. And then, my last
clarifying question is if it, you said that it didn't feel right. Is it because it has a colonizer
feel to it?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 49
MS. DARCY: Yeah. You know, when you think about what I, and this is only on my spectrum
of learning, but what I've learned is that yes, anybody who has relocated here, and was
able to buy a lot of land has, I, I don't, I don't feel like it's honoring the true history of,
like I said, just, just drop in and stay focused on land. And yes, it does feel that way to
me. And I don't know that. I'm certainly no authority on this. Yeah, it would be different
if it was somebody in that region who was Hawaiian and it was, you know, named after,
after them, and really kept to history, like, Hawaiian history. That's, that's just my, my
two cents, my hope.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Darcy. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, thank you, Lisa. Good seeing you.
MS. DARCY: Thank you. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Bob
Adams. To be followed by Michael Marlin.
MR. BOB ADAMS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Madam Chair, I appreciate your time today. I'd like to speak on behalf of Bill 21. And
I would like to start off and say that I started in 2009 on the Big island, working with
them on their lighting ordinance. And I represent the company that supplied about
15 or 20,000 lights to the Big Island in support of their efforts. So, when I started with
that, it was looking at LEDs and what it meant for the traffic people. It's since evolved
a lot further than that, looking at the influence of the spectrum on the night sky and the
people.
This led me about five years ago to Jay Penniman and the work that he's been doing.
And so. I, I feel I have a much more looking at it from that point of view, in terms of how
it benefits your case and others around. We worked very hard with people on the Big
Island to establish this. It was a different way of doing things. But since then, we've
got lighting installed in hospital. We've got lights at schools. I'm putting lights up at
Four Seasons. We, we really have saturated the community in terms of the use of it.
And to this point in time, there has been really no negative kickback to what this lighting
has been able to accomplish.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 50
We, we're in the process now of supplying ramp lights for Kona Airport. This program
was put in, FAA's put money in for upgrading the lights at the airport. The FAA does
not control the ramp lights. So, the airport made the decision to put up the lights that
are going to be environmentally friendly. Because, as you know, the airport sits looking
directly at the water. And one of the issues that the airport gets involved in,
unfortunately, is there have been issues about the fish on the coastal area around that,
and what influence the lighting could have from the airport. We believe this is going to
be a positive impact in that, and that this light with no blue doesn't attract some of the
larger fish from further out in the ocean. So, the science that's starting to come out of
this is getting stronger and stronger. And again, this is one of the things that led me to
Jay Penniman.
Kawaihae Harbor has had our lights up since 2014. Hilo Harbor had em up since about
2016. And again, with no real negative comments. The lights that have been up at the
airport now with the FAA project, it's been up about two years and there's been no
complaints from passengers, or pilots, or the control tower. So, I think it's that principal
technology there has been very positive. So, I'd be happy to answer any questions.
As I said, this environmental thing goes much further than what's out there. We've
looked at turtles and a variety of other things that what it might do to the reef. All of
these things I think are really germane to what you are proposing, and I would strongly
endorse this bill.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. We do have some questions.
Member Sinenci, first.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Mr. Adams, for joining us this
morning. So, it looks like were, I just had a question. Were you, did you acquire like a
winning bid with the County of Hawaii to do these things?
MR. ADAMS; When, when I was approached by the County to take this project on, nothing
existed that would go off and provide the energy requirements, the energy savings that
they wanted, and most of all, satisfy the observatory. So, this was a two-year process.
We had developed some technology. 1 was told, when I went there in 2009, you're
going to have to do a demo. I said, okay. And he said, oh by the way, that's for one-
year. Turns out it was a two-year demo. So, show the people in the community that it
was not disruptive to traffic, and most importantly, the people in Mauna Kea had no
complaints.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And ... So, you did win the bid from the County to do the
lighting?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 51
MR. ADAMS; Yes. Yes. I did.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And there were other bids out there that you competed?
MR. ADAMS: There was no other technology out there that could do this type of work. So, I
spent time developing that.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And can people access this type of technology online or on
the continent?
MR. ADAMS: ... answer two ways on this. What I do, there are one or two other people that
are trying to get into this work and to do it. What's important, I think, with this bill right
now is the restriction calling for the blue light to be below 2 percent. To do that, I need
to stress, and I'm speaking against my own case, there are other ways to do this with
LEDs. So, it's not just my solution, but there are others that are out there that can do
this as well.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Mr. Adams. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. So, what company is your company
please? I didn't hear when you--
MR. ADAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. I should have said, C&W Energy Solutions.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: C&W Energy Solutions?
MR. ADAMS: Yes, ma'am.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And you provided 15,000 to 20,000 lights for the Big Island
with this bill?
MR. ADAMS: That's correct?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: In a year?
MR. ADAMS: No, this was over five years. And actually, we've been there now ten years.
The first five years we've provided about 10,000 to 12,000 for roadway lights and, and
other non-roadway lights, non-County going into Prince Kuhio Shopping Center. So,
we've done the shopping centers, as I said, and a variety of others, schools, Mauna
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 52
Lani. We have a lot of lights up at HOAs. As I said, our most recent one and our
flagship, if you will, for resorts is Four Seasons. We've been looking at them for three
years and they've now signed up and they're going to install them there. So, the last
two or three years have been much more focused on the private sector, for sure.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I, I hear lighting also available on Amazon for the
general public to purchase?
MR. ADAMS: All they have to do is contact us--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Residents?
MR. ADAMS: And I, no, I do not do Amazon. Because, what we look at in most cases, people
have specific needs. One of the things we do is we'll provide unique lighting solutions
for HOA that has a decorative fixture. So, I like to support that kind of an effort. As it
says, it's growing. I think environmental lighting is taking a stronger position, but it's
still taboo in a lot of places. So, I try to support all I can.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more questions having to do with the testimony?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, because he's talking about Big Island legislation. And
I understand the Big Island legislation is primarily commercial, not residential. So, your
clients are, from what you said is commercial, correct?
MR. ADAMS: No. I have, I have HOAs and I have individual homeowners. We have, you
know--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so his answer is no. His answer is no. Okay.
MR. ADAMS: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any, any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And to purchase it through him only. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else with questions?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 53
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Adams, for your testimony.
I just was wondering about the part where you said about the harbors and the airports.
Do you know if that was voluntary compliance, or they were complying with legislation?
MR. ADAMS: This was voluntary.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh okay.
MR. ADAMS: I cannot, on the State it's voluntary. On the airport, the FAA does not control
that. So, this was an airport decision to go do this. But I will say that the lighting
upgrade was with funding from FAA, and so the monies to do this came through FAA.
And in addition to taxiways and the other standard things.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification.
MR. ADAMS: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, thank you very much, Mr. Adams.
Mr. Clerk, how many more testifiers do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we currently have 12 more testifiers signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to have lunch at 12 or sooner? 12:00? Okay, we'll take
testimony up until 12:00.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, Chair, the next individuals signed up to testify is Michael
Marlin, testifying on Committee Report 22-47. To be followed by Laura Riedell.
MR. MICHAEL MARLIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good morning. Can I be heard? Hello?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, we can hear you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you.
MR. MARLIN: Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to present. I've seen over at the
Department of Land and Natural Resources contacting me this morning, wanted me to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 54
testify. I'm an expert in the field of Dark Sky Initiatives. I've been involved with Dark
Sky advocacy since 1987. I have lectured to the Idaho and Nebraska tourism board,
to the 15th European Dark Sky Symposium, the Pakistani Development Institute, and
written a book on the topic, "AstroTourism: stargazers, eclipse chasers, and the dark
sky movement". So, yeah. I'm one the experts in the field and 1 appreciate the work
that Mr. Adams has been doing. There's been a lot of advances in the field of Dark
Sky lighting since he got into this work.
I am in favor of this bill. And it is a good start to the preservation of dark skies in Hawaii.
Dark Sky Initiatives do a number of different things. It reduces energy costs. It reduces
greenhouse gases. It reduces energy consumption. It improves safety. It protects
nocturnal animals. It protects human health. It preserves cultural... It is the economic
stimulator. And it also improves aesthetics.
1 have lived on the Big Island since '87, and for the first time, we can see the glow, sky
glow from Pahoa, which is about 25 minutes away, and it's because of the lighting that's
being used. The initiatives here on the Big Island do put out a . . . lighting to protect
the observatory. But it doesn't address residential or businesses. And those, those
lighting, as, as people continue to populate . .  .more and more light pollution is going
to happen.
In 2016, the American Medical Association published a public guidance saying that no
light. . . And it had been linked to a number of different maladies including melatonin
suppression, diabetes, obesity, certain forms of cancer, and some of you might be, all
of us are familiar with the new headlights that are out there, which are bright white.
Those are burning at 6,000 kelvin, which is why most people find them blinding.
I believe that there's an opportunity here for the, the Maui legislation to start here with
protecting the shearwaters, but you don't simply protect a portion of the ocean. If you're
going to put in a place, something like removing plastic bags, everything benefits as
what will happen as more lighting adjustments or lighting design goes into place to
preserve the dark skies. I believe all of us, I believe all of us, not just people my age,
deserve to have the stars and the, handed to . .  .the future generations that come
online. They weren't just for us. In the course of a single lifetime, we've lost our
connection to the sky.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions?
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh no. Madam Chair. I don't have question for the testifier.
Maybe question for you after we're done with the testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 55
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I do not see any hands up. Thank you very much for your testimony.
MR. MARLIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you very much. Madam Chair. You know, we've
had a lot of testimony on the Bill 21. And Member King told us this morning she couldn't
stay for the meeting. And so, I'm just curious as to what is your intent as Chair? Are
you considering taking action on the bill without the maker? And of course, there's
been concerns expressed from the County. So, just, just for the testifiers' information,
who may be curious as to if we're going to take action on the bill today without the
maker of the bill?
CHAIR LEE: That's the recommendation is to postpone that bill. I've actually, maybe you
didn't hear it, but I mentioned that to Member Sugimura earlier. But I can't speak for
all of the Members. So, you know, it's, at this point, it's a recommendation to postpone
this particular bill until the next Council meeting.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: ... in agreement.
CHAIR LEE: And maybe some of the testifiers didn't hear that part. Thank you.
Yes, Mr. Clerk, next testifier, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Laura
Riedell, testifying on Bill 108 (2022). To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MS. LAURA RIEDELL rtestifyinc on Bill No. 108 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council and Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. RIEDELL: Thank you. Glad to be here today. What an awesome day to be here and be
able to witness the honoring of our cheerleaders.  Ionce myself was a cheerleader and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 56
my daughter as well. So, that was very special to me here and, and witness it with all,
with you all. I am also a part of the advisory committee for Share Your Mana. And I
am also one of our houseless community members.
I would like to thank Councilmember King for bringing this forward. I believe that this
Bill 108 is a positive movement forward for our houseless community. And I, I
encourage you all to look at this with, for the future, with future eyes. It's, it's exciting
to, to, to think that there may be a possibility that some of us can sleep somewhere
safely without, you know, being, you know, accosted or, you know, other things. And
one of my, my things I had read as well was the time. And I'd encourage that to be
looked at as well, because everybody deserves a full eight hours sleep. And when
you're houseless. I'm not sure if you realize how much time it takes to actually get set
up, you know? I'm one of those who am in my van.  Idon't have a spot to go to. So,
when I park, it takes me a good hour, hour-and-a-half, to get set up. So, just something
to take into consideration there.
The other thing is, is I do work. So, being confined to a locked gate is concerning for
us. I would be curious how we would be able to take care of the things that we may
need to take care of. Some of us may start work at 4:00 in the morning, the gate is
shut until, I believe, 6, you know? And then, just the, the, you know, comings and
goings is very difficult when you're time-restricted and you're houseless. I saw that
there was an hour to get everybody in. So, basically, we would be in at 11:00. And I
don't know how many of you go to bed at 11:00, but I'm sure you just hop right into
bed. Thank you for your time. Have a great day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much.
And then, we'll call on Mr. Mayer. And then, take our lunch break right after him, okay?
Mr. Mayer, good morning.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on Committee Report No, 22-52):
Good morning. Good morning. I want to speak on one item that's before you and
that's Council Resolution 22-, committee. Committee Resolution 22-52, dealing with
apartments in the M-2 zone. I notice that you have it for filing and I also saw that there's
a letter from the Planning Director urging you to delay that and not have the filing at
this time.
So, I urge you not to allow apartment units in the M-2 Industrial section of our County
Code. This would be a step backward in Maui's zoning practices and would go
contrary, the recommendations made to the County and to our Planning Department
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 57
to not allow stacked zoning practices that are now incorporated into the Maui County
Zoning Code.
I've sent to your, your offices the zoning audit that was done in March 2018, three years
ago. That audit has many recommendations and have not been implemented. And
instead, we find this item before you, which goes backwards and increases the stacked
zoning. And I'm just going to reference a few items in that, in that audit report. Page 11,
it says "Interim and stacked zoning produce undesirable outcomes." It goes on to say
"Stacked zoning is a discredited zoning method that undermines community character.
Because stacked zoning allows for often conflicting land, conflicting land use and
development patterns, it does not ensure quality development. For Maui's industrial
zones where stacked zoning is prevalent, this means that they may not be developing
in ways that support industrial investment and growth." In other words, it may actually
retard industrial development and growth.
And page 15 says, "Some districts, such as those used for interim and stacked zoning,
allow too many dissimilar uses that may reduce investment with confidence and create
a sense of chaos or, at best, a lack of cohesive, related community, related
community."
And finally, it makes two recommendations. So, one major recommendation that says
eliminate pyramidical stacked zoning. And with reference to M-2 district, the audit is
very specific and states on page 76, "The practice of stacked zoning should be re
evaluated throughout this section and the Code in general." In other words, please do
not allow this to happen. If an area has industrial zoning at present, and there is a
need to put some housing in there, whatever, the applicant for that land parcel can
come to you and ask for zoning, and you will then be, be able to put the specific
conditions on that will make that apartment possible. You don't need to have a special
grandfather comprehensive allowance for all of the, the apart, the industrial lands to
have that.
For example, Paia Sugar Mill is industrial. And do, you know, somebody comes in and
says they want to put it in, this ordinance will essentially give them a green light to go
ahead and put all that apartment, even though it may be incompatible with the soil in
that area, with the residues left over from the mill operations, etc.
And lastly, if it were allowed to go through, the proposal to allow apartments, let's say
an apartment does get built on industrial land. That does not stop subsequently, an
industrial use of that land that may be incompatible with the apartments. In other
words, usually we think of it as being the apartments first, but the industrial be there,
you put an apartment on it. But what happens if you put those apartments in and then
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 58
some industrial use comes ... could have some dirty elements in that thing that would
make it not compatible with the residents you've now moved into that area.
And my guess is that might be used as a, as a way to get H2, what do you call that?
The rapid, the housing, affordable housing projects into these industrial lands. Then
you have lower income people who may not have the ability to come to you and argue
against that new industrial use that would come on their parcel of land.
So, please, table this, and put it to bed. And require the Planning Department to come
to you with an update of their zoning ordinance. It's been three years and you've seen
nothing from them except an effort like this one to make it worse. Thank you very
much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Any questions. Members? I don't see any. Thank you
Dick. Have a great weekend.
MR. MAYER: You too. Have, enjoy the week.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks. I keep thinking that today is Friday.
MR. MAYER: I think you should put--
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members.
MR. MAYER: I think you should put a PR release and let people know that you're now no
longer wedded to Fridays. That you have ... or whatever. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thankyou. It's 12:02. Members, 1:00? Okay, return at 1:00. So, the meeting
is in recess until one.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:02 P.M
RECONVENED AT 1:11 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS
JOHNSON, KAMA, AND KING, EXCUSED.)
AND WAS
CHAIR LEE: Will the Maui County Council meeting of June 21, 2022, please reconvene?
Members, we are shorthanded, and so we have only six people. We have three people
excused; Members Johnson, and King, and Pro Temp Kama are excused for the rest
of the meeting. And so, if you need to step away from your desk, please let us know,
because we may not have quorum anymore.
And then we also have about 11 people left to testify. Okay. So, Mr. Clerk, let's go
with the testifiers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 59
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is
Cassandra Abdul, testifying on Bills 107 and 109 (2022). To be followed by Martin
Frye.
Cassandra Abdul, it is your time to testify. We see that you're connected to the
meeting, but you're muted on your end. I cannot unmute you.
CASSANDRA ABDUL, NA HALE O MAUI ftestifyina on Bill Nos. 107 (2022) and 109 (2022):
Good afternoon. I seem to be having challenges, too. I cannot turn on my camera, so
I apologize. Thank you for taking the testimony that you have today. And I wanted to
testify today on two bills. One is Bill 107, that would amend the 2.96 sales guidelines.
And first of all, I always want to commend you for the work that you've been doing and
the efforts that you have taken to make improvements to the way affordable housing
occurs here in Maui. I think that it's an admirable intent.
I did want to raise, I guess, a question. I'm a little confused when I look at it. On item
"C. Sales price", there seem to be two parts to this. The first says that the sale price
should be the current HUD price guidelines. I'm assuming that means that there would
be no adjustment for Hana, Molokai, or Lanai. But the income there is lower than what
it is in Central Maui, the rest of Maui. And the sale prices are also lower, because of
the adjustments that the Department of Housing makes. So, if they are at the same
level with everybody else in Maui, the income allowable would be higher, but so would
the sale prices. So, just, just something to be aware of and make sure that when you
make the decision, there are no unintended consequences.
The second part is, it says, talks about what's included, principal, interest, taxes,
homeowner's insurance, and so forth. Those are primarily related to a home buyer
being able to qualify at the percentage of income, their gross income, to their housing
costs. And I'm, I would not expect to see this here when you're talking about sale
prices, because these issues, insurance, private mortgage insurance, dues, and so
forth, are not directly related to HUD prices.
I took a real quick look at, I see it increases the cap from 30 percent to 31 percent. Na
Hale 0 Maui has been dealing with affordable housing since 2006, and we actually use
a number of 35 percent and include all of these expenses. I don't believe 31 percent
would necessarily cover all those expenses. We did a real quick, quick and dirty look
at what it would cost at 100 percent AMI for a family of four, and the, when you add up
all of those expenses, they will exceed 31 percent. So, just be aware of that. Thank
you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 60
And on the second issue, this is Bill 109, to create grants for home restoration. Again,
I'd like to applaud the intent. I think this is a little different for Na Hale O Maui, we do
affordable housing. But I believe that this bill would help keep housing affordable,
especially for our elderly that need more help. And it would keep the house habitable,
which is a big, important thing.
The other thing it would do. it would allow people to age in place, which is something I
think that most people would like to do. So, again, on grant, on Bill 109, grants for
home restoration, I would support this. And I think that's it for me today. Thank you
very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Abdul. Any questions. Members? No questions,
very much.
Thank you
MS. ABDUL: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Martin Frye, testifying on
Committee Report 22-47. To be followed by Michele Morey.
MR. MARTIN FRYE. MAUI NUI SEABIRD RECOVERY PROJECT (testifying on Committee
Report No. 22-47):
Aloha, Chair, and the rest of the Counciimembers. Mahaloforthe opportunity to testify
with you all again, regarding this lovely Bill 21, which we're so happy that it got so much
support, and that it got so much consideration frankly, before coming before the general
Council today.
I work for the Maui Nui Seabird Recovery Project, and I have followed the development
of the bill fairly closely. And I want to throw my, you know, support as a conservation
professional here, fully behind the original bill as it was drafted. And 1 forgot to mention
at the beginning, I wanted to also mahalo Councilmember Sugimura for the awesome
presentation at the beginning of the day. ! really value the legacy of Title IX and being
able to be a resident here and feel close to that history is something that I actually
regularly share and make sure to, to point out to people that I, both closely and then
people who I don’t know very well that might be visiting.
So, really quickly today, 1 have something to show you guys. Because, actually, just,
just at the beginning of the call, I had signed up this morning to give testimony, and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 61
before I was able to, I got a call on our 573-BIRD, down bird hotline. I have a ‘Ua‘u
kani right here. This bird was discovered last night. It was light distracted in the village
of Kahakuloa, a place that does not have very many lights. And yet, there's wildlife
present there. Now, the residents who found the bird knew exactly what to do. They
called us and I picked up the bird right during the lunch break that we just had.
I wanted to point out before I put this back, and go to release it immediately, because
it’s healthy and doing very well. Our light distracted birds typically have nothing wrong
with them. And we can tell that they've been light distracted because they're merely
disoriented. And once we show them the ocean, they fly right away. So, here is the
band on the leg, you can see the steel leg band. So, our group and those from DLNR
have been putting these bands on birds for over 20 years here in Maui County. We
know a lot about what happens to these birds when they're born, after they fledge, and
what happens to them as adults when they return to the colony.
I really appreciate the work of the Council in acknowledging all those facts that we have
gathered in our expertise as conservation professionals. And I urge you to push
forward this bill, which really, which really, it represents a step forward. And I think
we've heard a lot of testimony, you know, in support. 1 wanted to highlight that, that
came from the general, the people from experience that have experience over on Big
Island, where they are quite frankly ahead of us on this sort of initiative. And I think,
you know, we shouldn't let Big Island beat us so much. You know, Maui no ka oi.
Let's, I know it's hard. People have pointed out that, yeah, it's, you can't just walk into
any store and find these lights, you know, especially maybe today. But in the near
future, I think that we all anticipate ... So, let's not stick our head in the sand. Maui
no ka oi, let's do it. Keep the country, country. Stop light pollution, help seabirds.
Before I go, I wanted to point out this bird, Koa'e kea, which slammed into the Pride of
America cruise ship.
CHAIR LEE: Could, could you please conclude your testimony?
MR. FRYE: Sure. Yeah, this is the light-distracted bird that unfortunately perished when it
struck a cruise ship in our harbor a few years ago. So, you know, the story from today
was more positive. It's not always like that. And so, take, keep that in consideration,
please, as you move forward. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? I see no hands up. Oh, I see one hand up.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 62
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Frye, for your testimony.
Just was clarifying, did you say 523-BlRD?
MR. FRYE: 573-BIRD. I think I may have, if I misspoke, apologies. Yeah, 573-BIRD is our
hotline. It's a 24-hour hotline. And, you know, the gentleman from Kahakuloa and his
family who I just met with this morning to, to get to this bird, they knew all about light
distraction. And they, they were very, when I told them what was going on today in the
County Council and they were, they were all for this measure, because they know how
closely we live to the land here, and they know how closely related they are to this-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. 57, 573-BIRD; B-l-R-D. 573. Got it. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not. thank you very much.
MR. FRYE: Thank you all very much. Have a nice day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Michele
Morey, testifying on Resolutions 22-158 and 22-159. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
Michele Morey?
Chair, she does not appear to be connected to the meeting anymore. We'll move on
to the next testifier.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And that is Junya Nakoa.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159):
What's up? You guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah. Okay. Okay, 22-58, yeah, gang. This is the one about the eminent
domain for the purchase of the. that stupid, stupid hotel down there, down the road.
Yeah, you know, like 18 months ago, whatever they was saying ... a year-and-a-half
ago, when this was brought to my attention by all the surfers and the guys that go down
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 63
to Napili Bay and my aunty across the street that she used to live there until she when
pass away. You know, got involved with this project, yeah, gang. And more and more
I got into it, more and more I got educated about this type of, this, this mischief kind
stuff that's happening in the Planning Department.
And I was asked by one of the Councilmembers, yeah, a year-and-a-half ago, what
would I, what would I wanted to happen with this property, if anything? And back then,
I show her one, one plan of making one bathroom, one public bathroom over there,
cause no mo, eh, over there. And they making one public parking and charge the
tourists up the yin-yang. No scared, I no care how much you like charge um, charge
urn $100. I no care. Make them pay for um. But at least you know you get something
for like that. And then the locals will be for free, park over there for free and . .
Yeah, so, again, you know, if this had happened like then, at least, you know what I
mean, I don't know how much you were thinking of purchasing ... this crooked buggah
and what not. So, I hope it’s not the whatever 11, 12, 13, $14 million that he's
advertising. It sucks because we waited so long and now we stay stuck with this dang
thing, you know? Everything is illegal, the walls. All of a sudden, square footage come
smaller, but the house come bigger, you know.
I mean, so whatever happens, you know, I going be following detail about what
happening with this, this stupidity of a hotel that Corp. Counsel, the Planning
Department, for some reason couldn't communicate on how they was going handle this
thing. And if da kine, if the somebody in the Planning Department when screw up,
brah, any other place they would get either suspended, fired, or whatever. So, what
happening with these guys, yeah, the guys that when screw up on this project, yeah?
Kind of piss off. Piss us all of.
I just was, you know, Father's Day everybody was all telling me, brah, all of us would
be fired, you know? But no, nothing happening. And you guys when, you guys when,
you guys, you guys when talk about the ZAED last week Thursday. And, and nothing,
you know what I mean? Like nothing. Oh, slap on the wrist. Frick that, these guys
should be punished, and they should be start for the top, all the way down to the bottom.
I no care what cause that's our tax money that we paying these guys for do their job,
but they not doing um. They're screwing us up. Okay and yeah, so, let me finish, like,
finish up. So again, whatever you guys decide, how much money, please let it be
known publicly what is going on in this thing. And I wish this buggah was brought up
in the GREAT Committee. Okay. Sorry, I stay piss off.
Now I going go to the 22-59. Go ahead. . . .Yeah, you going ask questions? Go
ahead.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Anybody have questions? No questions. Do you want to go on to your next
one?
MR. NAKOA: Yes, I do. Okay. And then, now we get da kine eh, the 59 one, 159. I talking
about the investigation about. . . I've been telling you guys, asking you guys, begging
you guys, emails after emails, coming over here testifying, going crazy, asking for one
change, one, one audit over there. The guy get the audit, but do something about the
audit. And, you know, hey, the Greg Brown house,  Imean, whatever you guys go get,
you know, if you guys end up buying um, the eminent domain thing, whatever, maybe
we can really figure out what is the real square footage of this thing. And to see if the
thing was really fixed, yeah, the problem.
And then, the walls that I been mentioning how many times. Yeah, I get Tongan
brothers and classmates that build these walls. And I told you guys this before, they
said no way in heck that thing would be only $15,000. Crazy . . . guarantee easy over
$100-something thousand. And he not even really look at um, he just look at the
picture. He just when look at the picture, you know. And so, investigate um. You guys
like me go do um, I go do um. Give me the opportunity for go, go open the doors and
me go sit down, talk story with these guys.
So, according to Michele McLean, she claim that she's a professional in this, at one of
the, at one of the meetings, yeah. And according to, if she was such a professional,
then why the heck did she let this happen? Cause she said it in this, in this forum that
if she knew about this, she wouldn't have had passed it. And this was also brought up
at the public meeting I had at the property site, yeah. And again, so again, you guys
know what was wrong. Why wait so dang long, yeah? And I like do, I like be, you
know, the public should know everything about what's happening in this investigation
and, you know, be transparent.
And, you know, with this whole Greg Brown bull crap, I. eh. I've been seeing. I've been
doing my own, I told you guys about trying to get local contractors to get their projects
fast. And 1 using all the stuff that Michele McLean and the Corp. Counsel was saying
that it's good for Greg Brown ... for set precedence for these locals for get their permit
processed. But guess what? Michele McLean no more even, and you know, you guys
just had the investigation Thursday, they no more even one timeline on how one
applicant can go ahead and know when to start, where to go next, who's next, Water
Department, cultural, you know, cultural. Give us one timeline, so they can make it a
lot more clearer to what's happening.
Right now, 1 get, I stay send all you guys one email about Michele McLean says, the
ZAED says this thing on one garage. They no tell em to Michele McLean, Michele
Mclean says, oh no she's wrong. You know, eh, you, we, yeah, it's okay. Then a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 65
couple weeks later, she say, let me finish. Couple weeks later she said, oh no, Junya,
yeah, they're right. The ZAED is right and then, so now the, the applicant . . . one
month of time, valuable time. Okay, valuable time and money. You know, money,
valuable money to these people. But the, the, it is all screwed up, gangy. So, yeah,
mahalo you guys so much. But I tell you guys right now, gotta do something.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any questions. Members?
We have one from Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And aloha, Mr. Nakoa. Mahalo for your
testimony this afternoon. So, are you okay with some of the recommendations that
came out of the audit as an alternative to creating a TIG?
recommendations was more training for staff, more outreach with the public, like you
said, kind of creating a timeline for applicants, as well as changing up some of the
policies in Title 19?
Some of the
MR. NAKOA: 110 percent, okay. Cause I when, I when call up Michele McLean to, to have
one meeting to talk about the, the audit, or whatever the assessment, yeah? And then,
Jordan Molina came on top, and then we when talk story. We had a good . . . talk
story, you know. We, eh, you know, they when ask me if I could join one commission
to make it smoother. I said shoots, how I going do anything? What I going to do to
help make it work? And so, yes. You know the training, that one you said about they
doing urn, just do urn. No, no, don't let them just talk about em and .. . make sure they
do em. If they doing what they said they going to do cause, and make it ail cherry,
whoa, all power to em. But make sure they do em, gang. Just make sure they do em.
That's all.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Seeing none, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Randy
Wagner. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. RANDY WAGNER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-52):
Aloha. I'm trying to, there i am. Thank you for considering my testimony. I'd like to
testify that Bill 82 should be filed. I think that allowing apartments in heavy industrial
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 66
zones carte blanche is a bad idea. I understand that there are places where there may
be M'1 zoning that would be appropriate for apartments. However, there are also many
places where they would be inappropriate. So, I would consider that all projects that
are of residential nature, that are proposed in an industrial zone should receive proper
review and scrutiny from Planning, and the community, and the Council, not just be
entitled to be there.
Our affordable housing crisis is severe. However, these people who will be getting
affordable housing need to have a quality environment to live in. They need to have
clean land. They need to have the infrastructure of sidewalks, and schools nearby,
and shopping, and all of the other things that residential zones may entail or should
entail. And all heavy industrial zones will not include that. So, we should not allow
apartments across the board.
In the case of some of our malls that might be better suited to have housing mixed with
the retail, for instance, the Kaahumanu Center, I thoroughly support that possibility.
But I think it should be reviewed specifically and not just allowed. And I also want to
mention that it would be very, have a huge impact on land values if developers could
just buy industrial land at a cheaper price and then use it for apartments. That is
inappropriate for developers to be given such liberty, I think, without the proper review
of planning, community planning, and County planning, and good design with all the
important components of residential housing. Thank you. And I'm a planner and an
architect. And also. I'm a member of the KCA and Chair of the Design Review
Committee. However, I am not speaking for the KCA. I'm just speaking for myself.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, do we have questions. Members? If not, thank you very much for your
testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. WAGNER: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To be
followed by Albert Perez.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION [testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-47 and Bill No. 108 (2022)]
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for, speaking for the KCA. My
friend Randy does the right thing for us. She gives the testimony and says who she is,
but she's not speaking for. . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 67
So, we, we're just on two items today; 22-47 and Bill 108. A short time ago, we heard
the Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez use the phrase "justice delayed is
justice denied". And that made me look, I thought, I forgot was that Martin Luther King?
So, it made me go back and look. And I think that was the origin. His actual words
were "justice too long delayed is justice denied", but same thing.
And when we look at 22-47, and this was our testimony before we realized you were
deferring it today, or probably you’re going to defer it today for good reason. But we
seem to see this happen way too often where a matter is discussed in-depth, and then
people who oppose it, they realize they can't stop it, so then they find a reason to delay
it. Oh, wait, we found something new, let's hold up on it. And, you know, every time
we hold up on something, the negative aspect continues.
So, we know, we've known for years that these endangered seabirds are being, are
dying, are being harmed. Their numbers are being reduced. So, let's not delay it any
more than necessary. It's very, let's not go back and say oh, wait, here's another
reason and let's delay this for a while. As soon as your, you can, please go ahead and
put this into action. It already has time limits in there to allow the humans to react to it.
But let's not lose any more of these endangered seabirds which are doing much for us,
not only for their survival, but they're helping us. So, please get that passed as soon
as possible.
And then, the other matter 108, having houseless people be able to safely sleep in a
car. In the sense, this, too, was delayed. 1 think it was five or six years ago when this
was brought up. And, you know, it looked like it was proceeding and another, another
impediment was thrown in, and another one, and then the matter was dropped. And
maybe it's not the same people, but we all know that the rental situation is getting worse
on our island. And more and more people are not able to afford rent, and they are
getting displaced. They're getting put out. And in some cases, it's a family where both
parents are working and sometimes the kids are going to school. So, everything is
normal except they can't afford to rent any more. So, while they're trying to get back
on their feet, they're surviving by trying to sleep in a car.
Let's give them a safe place to do this. Pick the location and say, let this poor family
sleep through the night in this uncomfortable situation, but not having them woken up
in the middle of the night with a flashlight saying you can't park here. Everybody's
sleep is disturbed. Parents have to go to work the next day and kids have to go to
school. So, let’s find a way for this, just as a temporary measure, that if we can't allow
these people a night's sleep in a car somewhere safe, there's something wrong with
what we're doing. So, let's not delay this any more than we have to, please. Let's get
a solution for this. So, thank you for the opportunity to speak our peace this afternoon.
Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 68
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Questions, Members?
Member Paltin, and then Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. I just had to disclose that my husband got
off of work, and he came home. I'm at home, but he's not in the same room with me.
But.. .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Moran. Mahalo for your
testimony. I, I heard your testimony quoting me, quoting a legal maxim that I, so I
quickly did research so I can correct the record. But I, it was, it was a late 20th century
maxim. And in 1868, it was in a speech from the British Prime Minister William
Gladstone. And then, there was a "to delay justice is injustice", in a 1693 book. So,
it's just known as a legal maxim, really.
MR. MORAN; Thank you for the history lesson.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're very welcome. Free of charge. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions for clarification? If not, thank you, Mike.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Albert
Perez. To be followed by Clare Apana.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW FOUNDATION (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-52):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 69
MR. PEREZ: Aloha. So, today I'm testifying on Committee Report 22-47 [sic], the bill that
would allow apartments in heavy industrial zone. The first paragraph of the Planning
Department's proposal describes the situation that is exactly why we shouldn't do this.
Over the years, these areas have transitioned from industrial to retail warehouses and
other commercial non-industrial uses. That is a failure of the planning process and it's
why the Title 19 Zoning Code audit said that putting incompatible uses in industrial
zones will drive out needed industrial uses. So, this business would make it harder for
true industrial businesses to exist. And then, those types of businesses will look for
cheaper land in outlying areas contributing to urban sprawl and higher infrastructure
costs.
500 feet may be enough to cut down on noise if the wind is not blowing your way. But
it's not enough to eliminate noxious odors. So, what about petroleum storage, propane
tanks. Is 500 feet enough distance to safely provide housing? And why do we want to
do this to people who need housing? The way things are going, all of our affordable
housing is going to be in flood zones, fire zones, and now noxious uses. This bill flies
in the face of the most basic purpose of zoning, which is to separate incompatible uses
for safety and for health.
Currently, the M-2 heavy industrial zone prohibits any place that you can live. Single
family dwellings, transient vacation rentals, and apartments are prohibited. And this
prohibition makes sense because these uses are incompatible with heavy industry. In
fact, at the bottom of the list of permitted uses, it says, in general those uses which
may be of obnoxious or offensive by reason of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, vibration,
and that are not allowed in any other district, this is where we put them to maintain the
quality of life elsewhere.
And then as Dick Mayer said, what if somebody comes in after the apartments there
and wants to put in a chemical manufacturing plant next door? That would be a
permitted use and it would impact the new apartment dwellers. So, this creates future
problems and it's unnecessary. The right way to amend the community plan and the
zoning is, the right way is to amend the community plan and the zoning to another
district that allows for residential uses without noxious uses.
And even in the West Maui Community Plan, live/workspaces were put into the
employment center designation, while noxious uses were put into the industrial
designation where you can't live. So, this is inconsistent with what we were told just a
few months ago.
To wrap up, having apartments along the Kaahumanu corridor may be a good idea,
but this bill would allow apartments to be built on heavy industrial zoned land without
properly vetting the impacts of that change on each parcel. So, if Maui Electric
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 70
abandons their powerplant at Maalaea, which they may do soon, do we want
apartments there? And then, I keep thinking Hammerhead Metals is in the industrial
area along Mokulele Highway. Will we then have the Hammerhead view apartments
built next to it? There will be unintended consequences from this bill and I urge you to
file it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you, Albert.
MR. PEREZ: Okay. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Clare Apana.
To be followed by Pat Borge.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Apana?
MS. CLARE APANA [testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47 and Bill No. 100 (2022)1:
Thank you. Are you hearing me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And we can see you.
MS. APANA: Okay. Thank you. Thank you for this long meeting. And first of all, I just want
to concur with Mr. Perez about the zoning change for apartments in industrial areas.
And I have two items I want to speak to you about. And one is the item 21, about the
seabirds. I am in full support of the original bill as it was written. And I'm so impressed
by the testimony that has come forward today from the, especially from Moku o Keawe
and with their experience. And I would just like to present a slightly different take on
this, and that is about the Hawaiian sea birds, the u'a'u.
And if you remember the . . . some years ago. we did a special ceremony up there, a
group of us, on that day at sunset and it happened to be raining. And one of those
days when the mist comes in, so we were covered by the mist as we set our, we had
our ceremony. And during that time, we could hear the sound of the u'a'u all around
us like, you know, while we were saying, doing the ceremony, we didn't move. But
afterwards, we were all looking for the birds and we couldn't find them.
And the next day, I went up again to take someone else to the crater, and the same
thing happened. I could hear the birds, but not see them. And that led me to look for
the birds' nest to, to try to stop the telescope from being built. And so, I scoured over
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 71
that area looking for the birds' nest. Then to find out that they had done proposed
mitigation to move the u'a'u's nesting areas some miles away. And my friend said, I
hope they told the birds that they going move their home. So, now we're looking at the,
how they're being endangered by the lights. And I think that we should definitely pass
this bill and support the, they were here first. This is their habitat. We should not be
making it a intrusion upon their natural patterns for the sake of mansions on the beach,
hotels on the beach, in the path of their flight to the ocean. And so, that's, that's what
I have to say about that one.
And then, I would like to talk about the, the naming of areas, buildings. I remember
when, you all know where Pablo Caldito Park is. Maybe you know where Waihee Park
is? I remember when that was changed from Waihee Park to Pablo Caldito without
real consensus from the people who live there. As you know, there are many Hawaiian
families who still live in that area, who are still on their allodial title lands with lo'i. And
I mean, there was almost a fight that day, because what had happened was really
somewhat of a political move, 1 believe, maybe from votes, to name this person, the
park after this person who had lived there for a short time. But you know, there are
many Hawaiian names that could have been used, Keeaumoku, Kaahumanu, those
are, they all lived in that area, you know.
And, and I believe that Ms. Darcy is correct, that the more we lose of what is of the
culture of the Hawaiian people, the more we lose who we are and where we are. It
may not be a loss to some of the people who come here and just moved here, but it's
a great loss to me personally, to see names, like, the Mokulele Highway being
changed, where it had a name with a meaning and now it's the name of a politician,
you know? That's aole. I hope that you will consider this very carefully. And all places
should be looked at very closely to be named for the history, and for the place name of
the area that it's in. Thank you very much. That's all I have to say today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you. Oh. we have one
question.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Apana. Mahalo for your
testimony. 1 asked this question earlier of Ms. Darcy. And I guess I'll ask you, because
she responded appropriately that, you know, she is not knowledgeable enough in the
Hawaiian culture to be able to respond to that question. So, my question is about the
consistency of naming places after people, not being a Hawaiian practice.
MS. APANA: Yes. i think that usually things are named after the area. And the, and I, you
know, I really believe, as I think about this, Keani, that that is not how he named, how
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 72
he named areas. They were always named for the area, the function, the importance
in history that it came from. So, i believe you are correct in that. And I would like to
address the, but the, i think, I thought you were going to ask about the colonial, colonial
way, sort of erasing the culture. And I believe that that absolutely can happen. There
are ways to honor people without putting their names on everything, so that what we
see are names of people who came here, not names of the people who lived here.
We've lost enough already that this would be just one more area that you could give
the Hawaiian people a chance to maintain where we are and who we are. So, thank
you for that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Apana. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any more questions? if not, thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Pat Borge.
To be followed by Nicholas Huntz. Nicholas Huntz is the last individual we currently
have signed up to testify. If there are any other individuals connected to the meeting
or at a district office who would like to testify, please sign up now. The next testifier is
Pat Borge.
but you are muted on your end.Pat Borge, I see that you're connected to the meeting
We cannot unmute you.
Shall we move on to the nextChair, Pat Borge is not responding at the moment,
testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, the next testifier is Nicholas Huntz.
MR. NICHOLAS HUNTZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Hello. Just turning on my video and microphone. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. HUNTZ: Okay. My name is Nicholas Huntz. I am the general manager for LED Hawaii.
LED Hawaii is a locally owned LED lighting company with warehouses on the Big Island
as well as Oahu. We specialize in indoor, outdoor, and street lighting for residential.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 73
commercial, and industrial customers, including outdoor and street lighting fixtures with
less than 2 percent blue light. LED Hawaii has been supporting customers on the Big
Island with fully cutoff less than 2 percent blue light fixtures since 2017.
The Hawaiian Islands are a very special place and the decisions made today will shape
the islands for generations to come. The Big Island of Hawaii is one of the most unique
places in the world and the steps that it has taken to eliminate light pollution, as well
as preventing the use of bright white lights from littering the night skyline. Maui now
has the opportunity to decide what it will look like for decades to come and generations
to come, whether it's a softer look of the night sky or continue with the status quo of
the whiter lights. LED Hawaii supports Bill 21 and recommends that it be passed by
the Maui County Council.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions?
Member Paltin, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Huntz for your testimony.
You might have said it, but I might have missed it? Did you say you sell your products
on Maui as well?
MR. HUNTZ: We sell lights statewide. We have physical locations in the Big Island, as well
as Oahu. But we do provide lights to all of the Hawaiian Islands.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh okay. Right on. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much for testifying. That was
one of the questions I had about where people can get these lights? Can you provide
us, I don't know if there's a model number or whatever, so I can do some research
because we were told that we could get this on Amazon.
MR. HUNTZ: I'm not familiar with any of these products being available on Amazon. We
provide our products directly to the customers, either through distributors, contractors,
through the government process or, you know, just customers will call in. And we'll
work with them, kind of to figure out what they need. I'm not aware of any of these
sold, you know, in online stores and things like that. It's very custom . . .
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm sorry, what was your last statement? I interrupted you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 74
MR. HUNTZ: Oh, I'm sorry. It's a very custom product. It's not used in very many places in
the world. And so, we take a direct hands-on approach with all of our customers. But
I think the, the gentleman with the birds was saying that, you know, just because it's
not available right now doesn't mean it won't be available in the future. But I just wanted
to say that we do have hundreds and often times thousands of these fixtures with the
less than 2 percent blue light in stock every day, you know, ready to support the
community.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, could you provide us  asupply list that we could look
at, that I could look at?
MR. HUNTZ; Yeah, I can-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, if I was a customer,  Iwould come to you, and you
would have these lists of materials that I could choose from and what the cost is? I'm
just trying to see the impact of this for residents.
MR. HUNTZ: Yeah. So, I'll be honest with you, yeah, most of what we do is in the commercial
and industrial sector. We have had residential customers reach out to us, because
they want to provide certain types of lights on their property. But I believe on the Big
Island there's a residential exemption as long as it's not brighter than a certain amount
of lumens. And so, most of our customers are not residential, but it's also not just a
one size fits all. So, I would kind of ask you different questions, kind of find out what
you're going for, show you some different pictures of what we offer, and let you choose
which style you like the most. And then we would, you know, provide you with where
you could pick up the product, and the costs, and different things like that.
So, you're saying then the Big Island bill is moreCOUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
industrial/commercial, not residential?
MR. HUNTZ: No, I’m not. I'm not saying that at ail. My understanding is that there is a carve-
out on the Big Island that if it's less than a certain amount of lumens, I believe per
square foot of property or per acre, something like that, that there's an exception. So
that, for example, the light outside of your garage door might be able to be a light fixture
you picked up from Home Depot, but the pole light that's provided by the County in
front of your house, as well as ail of the lights at the shopping centers, the malls, the
grocery stores and things like that, all need to be complying with the ordinance. So,
it's sort of the scale of the light, where it's located and things like that is my
understanding.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're going to have a fuller discussion when this goes to Committee.
Any further questions? No? Anybody else? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
MR. HUNTZ: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Pat Borge.
To be followed by Kanamu Balinbin.
MR. PAT BORGE [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-47. 22-52. & 22-53: Resolution
Nos. 22-158 & 22-159: and Bill Nos. 108 (2022) & 110 (2022)1:
Good afternoon, Councilmembers, Chairman Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Good afternoon.
MR. BORGE: I know it's been a long day. I'm glad  Igot on here. I want to testify on a few
items. One of them is the 22-52, I was listening to Perez on the zoning in industrial
area. When you bring up living in industrial areas, it reminds me of the plantation days
when I used to live right next to the sugar company, you know, growing up in Puunene.
And I thought we got away from that kind of area, you know. And local people deserve
better than living in an industrial area. So,! hope that is wiped off the slate. You know,
it's ridiculous.
And also, I want to testify on 22-47, about the lighting. You know, I had to deal with
lighting for the last couple months now here at the bay. It was sort of out of hand with
the lights and everything. The State had to come down and kind of control it a little bit.
But, you know, I'm a fisherman, I go out early in the morning sometime with my boat.
And if you people want to see lights along the shoreline, all you need to do is to go on
a boat early in the morning and go along the south shore, all the way from Kihei to
Wailea, and you will see the number of lights shining in this, in this, out in the ocean
here. And I'm sure it's affecting the bay. It's the most ridiculous thing I ever saw. I
mean, I never seen it before, but in the last several years, there's nothing but lights
shining into the ocean when I go out with my boat along the shoreline. Just thought I'd
give you a head's up on that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 76
And then, on item 22-53, referring to the Planning Commission. To me, the Planning
Commission, you know, I had to deal with them on several issues. You know, they
have a lot of power. I think they have more power than the Council sometimes, you
know. And that's why we're in this mess with that building in Lahaina, you know?
Because nobody, it's a check and balance there and nobody's checking what they
doing, you know. And, and it goes back to when you guys appoint people to sit on the
Planning Department. You gotta watch who you putting on the Planning Department.
They are going to guide us to the next generation. What we gonna leave our next
generation, you know. I mean, I sat there, and I listened to some of these planners, I
mean, they're pro-development. They don't care what the community is saying, you
know.
And for instance, I just went to one the other day, last week. A person didn't have a
permit for 20 years, 20 years. The person was running a business for 20 years without
a permit. And yet, they still want to give her the permit to run more and more and more,
you know. I mean, I'm sitting there going wow, what's going on here, you know what I
mean? I mean, to me, that's too much power in the Planning Department. It should
be audited. There should be check and balance. And right now, and I know a lot of
issues that we have on the island is comes from the Planning Department. And I mean,
let's face it, I don't care if I, I mean, I've watched Maui go from the greatest island for
the local people to live and flourish, and their kids and everything, to almost the local
people don't have nothing. You know what I mean.? It's all about the rich. Okay, so
thanks for letting me vent on that.
So, the 22-158 and 22-159, that's about going after that guy in Lahaina. That's, that's
the most ridiculous. That just show you what can really go on in the Planning
Department. 1 not pointing fingers at anybody, the chairman or whatever. But they
need to be investigated on what went down on this building. And If you take domain,
simple as that, go in there, shut that guy down. That guy lied and lied and lied, just like
that person that I went to see couple weeks ago at the Planning Department. And the
people just come out and lie, I mean, you know, come on. Those people, they need to
be an example that hey, you cannot do this in the County of Maui. You cannot just
come in with your big bucks and your big money and do whatever you like. We have
rules and regulations, and you must follow it just like everybody else on this island,
okay? Just like we got to do septic tanks now. It's the same, it's the same theory, you
know?
But. okay, and also. I want to testify on No. 110. I want to thank Mike Molina bringing
it up for the veterans. And Mr. Mike Molina, I want to thank you for your service. And
anything that can help a vet is a plus, no matter, no matter what. Because you know,
if it wasn't for veterans, if you look at veterans, if it wasn't for veterans, we wouldn't
have a Council right now. We wouldn't be able to discuss matters, right? Did you ever
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 77
think about that? What, what veterans have fought for this country, for our freedom,
freedom of speech. And that's why I can say what  Iwant to today, thanks to the
veterans. And I'm also a veteran myself.
So, I also want to bring up about this parking for County parks in our County parking
lots for the homeless. You know, it's a very touchy situation. I'm all for helping the
homeless, but I feel the County can get a piece of property and make it an area like
one in Lahaina, one in Kahului, one in Kihei. one in Hana, whatever, for the homeless
who has jobs, who are working and got no homes. Which they lost their home and in
dire needs of a place, safe place to sleep. But just opening up an area for the homeless
to stay, you open up a can of worms. Cause not all the homeless have jobs, you know?
Some of them, you know, some of them have mental illness, everything else. So, you
got to be very careful.
For me, I think the County can go out, the County owns a lot of land. I mean, you guys
can make a place where it's safe enough for the homeless to stay and whatever. Not
every, not every homeless gonna want to do that, but at least you give them the
opportunity to have a nice place to stay. And on that, I just want to end it and I want to
thank everybody here. You guys have a good week. And I know it's a hard job, its late
afternoon, everybody wants to go home and eat. But anyway, take care, god bless.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Pat. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the last person we have signed up to testify is Kanamu
Balinbin in the Chambers.
MR. KANAMU BALINBIN (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-158 and 22-159):
Good afternoon. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. BALINBIN: Sorry, the way I'm dressed. I just came from Costco. I thought I could do it
on Zoom, but it wasn't letting me get on Zoom, on BlueJeans. Anyhow, I'm testifying,
testifying on 22-58 [sic] and 22-59 [sic]. Eminent domain first on the 22-58 [sic]. You
know, it's been said that we came with this problem 18 months ago and it wasn't just
one person, was, was a group of people, you know. People, people behind the scenes
doing a lot of work. You know, in Lahaina, we kind of gotta work as a community,
because, you know, we feel like, I don't know, we feel like we don't get our fair share
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 78
of things. You know, we got to come to Wailuku for a lot of our shopping, you know,
just things like that. We don't have our community center, but so as a community, we
really band together on issues. And this is one of them that we're banding together.
You know, with eminent domain, you know, it's going cost the County a bunch of
money. And you know, I don't know if that's the correct thing to do. But if. if it will bring
out what, what's going to be happening in hopefully in 22-59, you know, I'm, I got to
support it. You know, like, like my mom said, was kind of funny. You know, like all
these older people, Mr. Borge, I loved your testimony, Mr. Pat Borge. You know, all
these old timers, the kupuna who've been here forever, you know, they drive past that
house, everybody drive past that house, my mom goes oh my god, didn't you guys do
something about this? Yeah, and then, you know, now I call her. you know mom,
people are, Counciimembers are trying, finally trying to do something about it. And the
first thing she said, how come only now? You know, we get that a lot, how come only
now? But you know, for me, at least it's a solution to the problem that we're facing.
You know, Ms. McLean said it, said herself back over there when we had that
community meeting right at the site that, you know, she wouldn't have, if she knew
about it when she was on vacation or whoever, she wouldn't have passed this, this
permit. You know, that should go a long way in how things are handled and how, you
know, I, I thank you guys, you guys do have a hard job.
And, you know, it's hard for me, you know, there's a lot of people that, that have a stake
in this. A lot of people, you know, I'm not speaking just for myself and my family. I'm
speaking for the community of Lahaina. especially for the people who live across the
street there, the Kalua family. You got the Samudio's, the Reimann's, the
Wahinehookae's, Kulukulualani's, Espiritu's, Akana's, Bacalso's. They live all in that
area and, and god, whenever we, you know, we go to family parties, everybody's there.
Everybody's like, oh, that house. And please, please, we need a, we need a audit of
the Planning Department.
And also. I'd like to state that, you know, because, because I've, because there's a
Board of Ethics complaint against Corp. Counsel and a certain individual, I think that if
you guys do do an audit, which I hope you do, that there will be independent counsel
involved. I don't think that Corp. Counsel would be the right people to do the
investigating. . . . you guys got my, you guys got my, my. I guess my affidavit on, on
how I feel about things on that. But other than that, you know, you guys have a really
hard job and I thank you guys for doing you guys best. Yuki, Mike, Alice and, you
know. I spoken to you guys before. I'm really thankful for Kelly King for taking the
initiative to write this resolution. And Tamara, too. Thank you, guys.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members. Questions? If not, thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 79
MR. BALINBIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Good to see you.
MR. BALINBIN: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, I had a question.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see your hand. Sometimes there's a pause, you know? I
look up, I see nothing, and then pretty soon . . .
Okay, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Balinbin, for your testimony.
I'm not sure I am aware of the affidavit that you are talking about.
MR. BALINBIN: We had sent, I had sent in an affidavit with the help of a couple lawyers to, it
was sent to, I don't know if it went to Kelly King, or to the Corp. Counsel, or to Council
Services itself. But I can send you, I can send you a copy. I can email you a copy.
Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MR. BALINBIN: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Good afternoon, Kanamu. Nice to
see you in person.
MR. BALINBIN: Thank you, Mike.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: With regards to the structure, let's say the County, in the future,
decides to purchase it Is there a need that you see in Napili, like for a small community
center, and you think . . .
MR. BALINBIN: Oh, that would be, that would be like so great. You know, I don't know how
it will come about. But like, like other testifiers had said, I believe Junya said that
earlier, you know, we don't have a bathroom at Napili Bay. So, a lot of the times, you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 80
know, people going go shi shi in the bush or relieve themselves in the water. You
know, it's not sanitary, you know. You know, number one, maybe. But you know,
sometimes get number 2 going on. And, and, you know, Napili Bay is a beautiful bay.
Plenty fish, plenty marine life. And you know, a, you know, bathroom along with the
community center, some kind of small community center, some parking, yes, charge
the tourists a reasonable rate, you know. You know, but yeah, that would, that would
be like the win-win situation, you know? ... if that happens. I'd throw one big hoolaulea,
you guys all invited. Mean food. Tripe stew for Alice.
CHAIR LEE: Tripe stew, yeah.
MR. BALINBIN: Mahalo. Thank you, guys. Sorry, everything is derived around food for me.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. No questions, huh? No questions? Alright, thank you very much.
MR. BALINBIN: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently do not have any other individuals signed up
to testify. We will do a last call now. If anyone has not testified, but would like to do
so, please identify yourself now. I repeat, this is our last call. Please indicate if you
would like to testify. Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we
have received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Christopher Fishkin;
Sam Small;
Leina'ala L. Ley, Earthjustice;
Bob Adams:
Junya Nakoa;
2.
3.
4.
5.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 81
Lahela Aiwohi;
Stephanie Austin;
Maureen Bacon;
Christopher Breckels;
David Casper;
Rebecca Collins;
Department of the Corporation Counsel;
Priscilla Craft;
Colleen Curran;
Greg Friedman;
Diana George;
Thomas Gianneschi;
Gerard Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
Patricia Inouye;
Sandi loakimi;
Andrew Isoda;
Geri K;
Nachum Kaplan;
Tara S. King;
Joseph Kohn;
R. Carolyn W. Lawson;
Christina Levang;
Pat B. Lindquist, Napili Bay and Beach Foundation;
Alison LY;
Michele McLean, Maui County Planning Director;
Michele & Martin Morey;
Teresa Naeole;
Tom Nelson;
Paula Opal;
Jonny Orlando;
Leiane Pad, The Dunes Maui Lani;
Steve Paselk;
Barbara Pospisil;
Kimberly Potter;
Ginger Prince;
Carol Reinhold;
Louise Rockett;
Chris Salem;
Erik Stein;
Amy Stephens;
Ananda Stone;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 82
48. Jim Verbick;
Tapani Vuori;
Richard Wesson; and
Dan Williams.
49.
50.
51.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's public hearing of April 14, 2022, was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING OF APRIL 14. 2022.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes of the public hearing on April 14, 2022.
Discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. AND KING.EXCUSED;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: Okay, six "ayes", three "excused no "noes": motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-138 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated June 7, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Committee on the Status of Women due to the
resignation of Sheron Bissen, effective June 7, 2022.
NO. 22-139 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated May 23, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State of Hawaii, Department
of Budget and Finance, for the Emergency Rental Assistance Program in the amount
of $117,561.74
NO. 22-140 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated May 23, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-251 Modification Order No. 4, from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Aging & Disability Resource Center
in the amount of $134,805.
NO. 22-141 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 9. 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-194 Modification Order No. 2, from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Title III Programs in the amount of
$509,365.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 84
NO. 22-142 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, {dated June 9, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-194 Modification Order No. 10, from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Kupuna Care Program in the amount
of $270,187.
NO. 22-143 - LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 4, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract Log No. 20-194 Modification Order No. 8, from the
State of Hawaii, Executive Office on Aging, for the Kupuna Care Program in the amount
of $236,552.
NO. 22-144 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated June 1, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement S-1, 331 Waiehu Beach Road
TMK: (2) 3-4-043:011 POR.
NO. 22-145 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated June 1, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Sewerline Easement M, Maluhia at Wailea
TMK: (2) 2-1-008:062 POR.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura to
file all items on the Consent Calendar. Any discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 85
CHAIR LEE: No. All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes" [sic], zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Six "ayes".
CHAIR LEE: I mean, I said, oh I'm sorry; six "ayes".
Member, I mean, Mr. Clerk. Do you want me to name the excused each time or not?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I believe it's understood that at the moment the excused
Members are Councilmember Gabe Johnson, Councilmember Kelly King, and
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I won’t mention them okay. Alright. Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications for referral. The
following county communications are recommended for referral to your Infrastructure
and Transportation Committee.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- HELENE KAU. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.NO. 22-146
(dated June 1, 2022)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for March 2022 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-146 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 86
NO. 22-147 - SHANE R. AGAWA. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated June 3, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending May 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-147 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to these referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-47NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 21. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PROTECTING
SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING," be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 21-546, from Councilmember Kelly Takaya King
be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to leaving this matter on the Clerk's table until the next Council
meeting?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 87
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I just had a question.  Ithought when Member Sugimura
was talking to Mr. Huntz, he said talk about it in Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, that was my mistake. I should have said it was, it may go to Committee but
for now, it's the recommendation from the Chair is to lay it on the Clerk's table.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, no, no objection if that's your recommendation.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And just for clarification. Member King
who introduced the bill, she had requested this postponement?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, she requested it.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Okay, if there are no objections, this matter will lay on the Clerk's
table until the next Council meeting.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-48NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-152 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM BY GULSONS, LLC," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-152.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 88
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt
Resolution, v\/hat was that number again? 22-152.
CHAIR LEE:
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. Your Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on May 31, 2022, and received
an overview of the claim in open session by a Deputy Corporation Counsel. The claim
alleges the County of Maui improperly vacated premises identified as Suites 102 and
400 at 35 Lunalilo Street in Wailuku, and is obligated to pay rent for the lease period
that was scheduled to terminate on June 30, 2021.
At the request of Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidential information related to the claim.
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to authorize the Department of Corporation
Counsel to settle the claim under terms set forth in the executive session meeting.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution.
Excused from the vote that day was Councilmember Johnson. I ask for the Members
full support of this motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCl,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
EXCUSED:
zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes’
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 89
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-49NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-153 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4067839 OF ZI^t CENTURY INSURANCE COMPANY ON BEHALF OF
ITS INSURED ABDEN AND DELIA CORPUZ". be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-153.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura to adopt Resolution
22-153 in Report 22-49.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on May 31,2022. This matter has to do\with
the claim that was filed on March 29, 2021, which alleges damages to the claimant's
vehicle resulting from a collision involving a Maui County fleet vehicle on October 21,
2020.
The Committee received an overview of the claim in open session by a Deputy
Corporation Counsel who said the incident occurred when the claimant's vehicle was
inadvertently hit while a County employee was pulling out of a parking stall.
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to authorize the Department of Corporation
Counsel to settle the claim for $11,667.66, under the terms stated in the resolution.
And your Committee also notes Section 3.16.020(B) of the Maui County Code requires
Council authorization for any settlement of claims or civil litigation in excess of $7,500.
Your Committee voted 7-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution.
Two Members were excused from the vote that day. Committee Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez and Committee Member Johnson. I ask for the Members support of this
motion. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 90
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion
and say "aye".
please raise your hand
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-50NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-52 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
CLAIM NO. 4064548 OF TYRON DELL7\", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-52.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt Resolution
22-52.
Discussion? Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on May 31,2022, and received an overview
of the claim in open session by a Deputy Corporation Counsel.
The claim alleges personal injuries and damages to the claimant and the claimant's
vehicle as a result of a motor vehicle accident at the intersection of Kaahumanu Avenue
and Wahine Pio Avenue in Kahului, Maui, Hawaii on February 25, 2020, which involved
a Maui County fleet vehicle operated by a County employee.
At the request of Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidential information related to the claim. The purpose
of the proposed resolution is to authorize the Department of Corporation Counsel to
settle the claim under terms set forth in the executive session meeting.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution.
Excused from the vote was Committee Member Johnson. I ask for the Members full
support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discission? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-51 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-102 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
ROBERT TURNER V. WAIAHIWI GULCH LAND COMPANY LLC, ET AL.. CIVIL
18-1-0244(11." be ADOPTED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 92
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-102.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt Resolution
22-102.
Discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on May 31,2022, and received an overview
of the claim in open session by a Deputy Corporation Counsel.
The claim alleges personal injury from an incident involving a fallen eucalyptus tree
that landed on the claimant's motor vehicle traveling on Pi'iholo Road in Makawao on
April 30, 2017. The claim further alleges that the County of Maui owned an maintained
Pi'iholo Road and was negligent in: (1) creating  adrainage ditch on Waiahiwi Gulch
Land Company LLC's property to evacuate water off Pi'iholo Road; and (2) cutting
down trees near the subject tree, which compromised the stability of the subject tree,
causing it to fail.
At the request of Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidential information related to the claim.
And Resolution 22-102's purpose is to authorize Corporation Counsel to settle the
claim for $190,000 under terms stated in the resolution.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution.
There was one member excused from the vote that day, that was Member Johnson. I
ask for the Members full support of this motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discission?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 93
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, this one was hard for me, and I
just wish the gentleman that got hurt the best in the future.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-52NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AMENDING CHAPTER 19.26, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PERMITTED
USES IN THE M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT", be FILED.
82
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-52.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 94
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adopt the
recommendation in Committee Report 22-52.
Discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on June 2, 2022, and discussed Bill 82 to include Apartments as
permitted uses in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District when certain criteria are met.
Your Committee received written and oral testimony relating to concerns of living in
close proximity to noxious fumes, loud noises, and possible unsafe living conditions.
The Planning Director said the proposed bill would help to create housing in areas with
existing infrastructure.
Your Committee discussed the change in zoning for each parcel separately instead of
creating a blanket exemption for residential use in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District.
Your Committee voted 5-4 to recommend filing of Bill 82 (2022).
I know Members received correspondence from the Planning Director requesting that
this be moved to the Affordable Housing Committee, and I speak against that. The
Affordable Housing Committee Chair did say that it needs work and wanted to change
some things. And I just would remind Members that if there is significant changes it
would need to go back to the Planning Commission anyway. And so, if anybody
wanted to work on this, I would recommend start over with no clock ticking.
Although, I have spoke with the staff of the Kahului Councilmember about pursuing
change in zoning specifically for the Queen Kaahumanu Center, because that's what
most of the testimony is about. And I'm not opposed to allowing housing there if the
noxious uses are taken off the table. So, I respectfully ask for the Members support of
my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discission? I, I have a hard time moving in favor of this, mainly
because whenever there's a change in zoning, the Council has an opportunity to add
conditions. And I see this as just another tool in the toolbox for affordable housing
where people have talked about so much to us, to me, about repurposing the existing
buildings and, and building infill projects close to transportation, to working, to their
jobs, to shops, to, you know, all the stores and so forth. So, I just take a different view
on this and I'll be voting no.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 95
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, I, in Committee also voted no. And
similarly, for what you're saying and what was presented to us by the Planning
Department, I have to look at what they were trying to do to help us solve some of our,
well, not some, but to propose another tool in the toolbox to get us to our affordable,
affordable housing or housing shortages. So, kudos to them. And I think it's what we
always ask them to do, and here they are presenting it, presenting us some options.
And I, I believe that the fear of the Council may be that we will not have a say. But I
believe, I think that it will come before us.
I also would highly support Queen Kaahumanu to give it a new life, and possibly adding,
you know, apartments or infill there, because across the street is the bus hub which
we're all working on. And there's the senior housing apartments there. The library,
there's all kind of different opportunities, you know, besides a shopping center and
Foodland. So, I believe that this provides us another opportunity to provide housing.
So, appreciate Michele McLean and the Department for, you know, sharpening their,
their pencils and trying to come up with something creative. And I will be voting against
this again. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?\
Member Sinenci and then Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, for my opportunity.  Iwill be upholding my vote in
Committee. I understand that Mr. Johnson is looking for some different options. But I
am open to maybe a zoning change in light industrial perhaps for multi-family to
increase affordable housing projects away from hazardous materials.
I, too, support the zoning change process for certain projects and not to change the
policy just to accommodate one or two projects. Chair, as taxes are based on use. I'd
like to see a deeper dive into this before adding different uses within this established
zoning area.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. In Committee, I voted to file. And I
would be absolutely fine voting to file again. I understand that the deadline on this isn't
until October. And so, I would be open to allowing Member Johnson to work on this.
However, I think Member Paltin's point of substantial changes resulting in it becoming
a different bill is a very legitimate point. And so, perhaps I can ask Corporation Counsel
or anyone from Planning on the extent of amendments that Member Johnson talked
with them about?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 96
Because I, I understand that he may have been considering putting some kind of
affordable housing component to this. And that kind of sounds like substantial changes
to the point of rendering it a whole new bill. And so, if that is the case, then procedurally.
Member Johnson won't be able to advance that, this legislation anyway. It would still
have to go back to the Planning Commission. But Chair, if you would allow me to ask
that question of Member, oh sorry, Corporation Counsel, or someone, a representative
from the Planning Department?
CHAIR LEE: Moana? Moana Lutey, are you on the call?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
question?
Aloha, Ms. Lutey. Were you able to hear my
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: I did. And I don't, I was just checking with Mimi
DesJardins on that, because she's been working with Member Johnson on this. So, I
don't have the answer right now. But I can give her a call and if you get someone from
Planning to pop back on and respond on that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, okay, when you ask Ms. DesJardins, if adding an
affordable housing component to this bill would be considered a substantial change?
Because I think it would. And so I think Member Paltin's point is well-taken. So, that,
that's, that would be my opinion on that. But I'll, I look forward to hearing your opinion.
I have more comments. So, we can let Ms. Lutey talk to Ms. DesJardins.
So, I just, I wanted to say a couple of things that I heard, and I want to provide my
perspective on the record. One, that if this bill is passed in Committee, Deputy Director
Jordan Hart said that housing would be permissible in heavy industrial zoned areas.
And so, we wouldn't have that opportunity to put conditions on it, because it wouldn't
be a change in zoning. It would be a permissible use in the heavy industrial zone area.
So, I don't understand how anyone would think that we would get that ability to put
conditions on a change in zoning, because it wouldn't require a change in zoning.
I think the direction that Member Paltin said that she spoke with Pro Temp Kama about
going in the direction of changing the zoning for specifically the parcel for the Queen
Kaahumanu Center would enable us to then put conditions because that would be a
change in zoning. I don't know if I would support  alight industrial. I think I would
support commercial. Commercial would enable, oh sorry, for the record, that was Pro
Temp Kama's staff. Sunshine law was not violated. Mahalo Member Paltin for that
catch. My apologies for implicating you. And so, I, I think commercial would allow for
housing that was conceptually discussed in Committee to be built without, on
commercial zoning. So, I think light industrial is also not the best path to go, because
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 97
it's still stacked zoning, which our testifiers spoke in strong opposition against, and I
agree.
And the conditions in light industrial, and it’s not about taking the, taking that project
away from the Council being able to provide input on. It's not, it's not about us, the
Council. It's about the community. It's about taking that oversight and ability to vet
fully and provide input to ensure that safeguards are put in place. That what is
eventually built is something that would be supported by the community, and is in
alignment, and meets the needs that our community is asking for. So, it's not about it
coming to us, and us having the final decision. It's about there being that opportunity
for public input, that I would not like taken away through the passage of this bill.
And it's unfortunate that Maui Now's article, when discussing this, solely focused on
the Council not approving the Queen Kaahumanu Center being changed from heavy
industrial, because it did cause a lot of misinformation. That was not what we opposed.
It was the ability for our community to be able to provide input is what we opposed. So,
those were my additional comments and hopefully Ms. Lutey is ready. Okay, I see her
video back on. Perfect timing.
CHAIR LEE; Well, I need to call on her when I'm ready, okay?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Ms. Lutey looks like she's ready, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I think we have other questions. Anybody have other questions or comments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Chair, I'm not done yet.
CHAIR LEE: You've exceeded like four minutes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: . . . she would go and then she would get that
information and come back.
CHAIR LEE; Well, we need to let other people that are in this meeting have an opportunity to
talk as well.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Three of, four of you, four of the six of you already
spoke. Only Member Molina didn't speak yet. And I, and, and so, I asked Ms. Lutey a
question. She didn't have the answer. She said she was going to get the answer and
come back, and so she's back.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So. but I need to make some clarifications here, because you've
misstated what I said, so you know-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 98
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, but Ms. Lutey came back with information--
CHAIR LEE: Here, hereafter, hereafter, when you speak, you talk about your perspective.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Because when I was talking-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: —you're not . . . We're able to speak however we
want to.
CHAIR LEE: This meeting is in recess at the call of the Chair.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:41 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:53 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA,
AND KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of June 21,2022, please reconvene. Now, Members,
let me tell you what the options are. it's obvious that there aren't enough votes to pass
this as recommended by the committee report. In other words, to file. So, we have-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, I wasn't finished with my comments before you
abruptly called a recess.
CHAIR LEE: I am not recognizing you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You never, you never-
CHAIR LEE: I am not recognizing you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You never set a time-
CHAIRLEE: I'm sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -set a timer. You're not conducting this meeting
fairly right now.
CHAIR LEE: I'm telling the Members what the options are, and then you can speak. Okay.
Now. the options are if we continue with the motion on the floor, it appears that it
wouldn't pass, okay. So, that's one option. The second option is to leave this item on
the Clerk's table till next Council meeting. So, that’s, that's an option that I would
recommend, because then we'll have a full complement of Councilmembers online,
should be back for the next meeting, I believe. And everybody will have an opportunity
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 99
to give their perspective, and their opinions on how to proceed on this matter. Or a
vote can be taken, and as it passed in Committee, it could pass out of Council at the
next Council meeting. So, that's our options, and I'm hoping that you'll either choose,
well, the better choice to me would be to let it rest on the, the Clerk's table till the next
Council meeting. And then, all Members will have  achance to weigh in on it.
Okay, now I am recognizing Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member Lee.
Corporation Counsel. I just wanted to get her answer, because she didn't have the
answer earlier when I asked her. So, she consulted with Ms. DesJardins and she said
My question was for
she would come back after she got the answer.
CHAIR LEE; So, is the Corp. Counsel on the line?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha, Ms. Lutey.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: I'm here. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, did you get some feedback from Ms. DesJardins?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes. So, the way I heard the question was really sort of a two-
part. The first is whether or not there would be sufficient notice to comply with Sunshine
Law with this amend, the amendment? And if that's correct, yes, I do not think that
there would be sufficient notice. The second part of the question, as I understood it is
whether or not there would be a change to Title 19 such that this matter would need to
go back to the Planning Commission? And the response to that is no, I do not believe
so.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Lutey. The, the first part of the question
wasn't about notice, but you answered my question in the second part. Mahalo.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, Members. So, we get back to what we were talking about. And are
there any objections to laying this matter on the Clerk's table until the next Council
meeting, so that all Members will have a chance to weigh in? Any objections?
Question?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 100
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
knowledgeable in the meeting, how it goes?
Can I ask a question of our OCS attorneys that are
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Of course. David? What's the question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. My question is if the vote to file fails today
then the vote to unfile fails, then what happens?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Thank you, Chair Lee and
Councilmember Paltin. The body needs five affirmative votes to dispose of the matter
today. So, if there is not a successful motion that garners five votes, the matter would
just remain on the Clerk's desk and carry over to the next Council meeting agenda.
Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. If no one else has any, I have a second and final
when it's time.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. For my second and final, I will just say that
it was brought to my attention that this idea came about during the Kaahumanu Avenue
transit-oriented corridor where the owners of the property did embrace the live, work,
play idea, which I also embraced. However, 1 am not sure why the discussion shifted,
or I know they said the trends have been less heavy industrial use, and so it was to
allow apartments in heavy industrial zoning. For me, you know, whether it's business
district, which allows multi-family or light industrial, which allows multi-family, I think
that's the more appropriate discussion.
In the Committee hearing, nobody from the owners testified. Nobody had an idea of
what would be proposed. Nobody had any comments as to affordability. And it was
kind of like, oh, if we do this, then we might get this. And it's like, you know, that's not
leadership in my opinion. That's not vision in my opinion. If you want to see a vision,
you need to take leadership. And if you're going to swerve into our lane, which is the
policymaking lane, you better make sure that you have your ducks in a row in the
Administration-lane, cause we gave a chance to clean up the act with the Brown house,
and now we, the policymaking body, have to clean that up. And people are saying why
only now? Because we gave the Administration a chance to do their job, and take the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 101
leadership role, and now it's come to us to clean up. So, if you're going to veer into the
policymaking lane, better make sure you got your ducks in a row in the Administration
side. That's all I got to say.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Again, we have a vote on, a motion on the floor. We can take
that vote, or we can just table this matter. Any objections to tabling this matter until the
next Council meeting, that way, nothing is finalized.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I object.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, one more question on your proposal. So, do we get to
more discussions next time, or was that our two discussions this time?
CHAIR LEE: Did you want to discuss it further, that's fine.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, we restart the discussions if it's tabled to the next meeting?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, my question is, we're taking up a lot of Council time when you
know the vote is 4-2. if you want to continue discussion under the circumstances, that's
the body's choice. We can continue discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I guess the question is-
CHAIR LEE: But Members . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: If we, if we vote now and it fails, and then it has to be tabled
anyway, then everybody gets two more discussions by the Rules?
CHAIR LEE: That's true. And I'm not opposed to further discussion. But I would encourage
you to wait until the rest of the Members are available. The other three that are not
here today will have a chance to weigh in. That's all I'm saying.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm okay if I, if we get two more discussions, because . . .
CHAIR LEE: If there are no objections to, to more discussions, two more discussions. I'm fine
with it. Any Member against the two discussions?
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21.2022
Page 102
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, Madam Chair. Just a continuation of the question posed
by Member Paitin. I don't know if maybe Mr. Raatz can add some additional
clarification. So, would it be cleaner then if we were going to table this, we could have
the motion to pass withdrawn, then we could continue, then a new motion can be made
at the next meeting? And then Members can have their two opportunities to speak to
the motion. I'm just wondering, okay, was it okay to just leave the motion on the floor,
table, or can we just withdraw today?
CHAIR LEE: David?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: It's more just about what is the more cleaner procedure here
to allow for the two discussion to occur at the next meeting, each Member having two
opportunities.
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. I think Councilmember
Molina's suggestion probably makes sense to start with a fresh start at the next meeting
if the item is going to carry over. But ultimately, it's the body's choice and the Chair's,
presiding officer to make that type of procedural call. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And my choice is to ask what the body prefers. So, so far, we have Member
Paitin suggesting that we continue the discussion with at least two more rounds. Am I
correct?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
IF, IF WITHDRAWING IS CLEANER, THAT EVERYBODY
STARTS WITH A CLEAN SLATE, AND EVERY PERSON GETS
TWO TIMES TO SPEAK TO THE MOTION, I'LL WITHDRAW
THE MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, withdrawing. Are you asking to withdraw the motion today and continue
discussion today with two more rounds?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, not continue discussion today. When the motion is made
at the next meeting, we follow the two discussion rule.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Let's go to the next Councilmember.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 103
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'll support our PSLU Chair's lead on
this if she would like to withdraw her motion today, since as you aptly pointed out, there
wouldn't likely not be enough votes for that motion to pass today. So. I would support
us waiting until the next Council meeting. What Member Paltin is, is asking, is if we
table this, if at the next Council meeting will we have used up our two opportunities to
speak to this motion?
And because Member Paltin is now going to be withdrawing her motion with the support
of Member Sinenci as the seconder, then there would be no motion on the floor. We
would postpone the item until the next Council meeting. You would make a new motion
at the next Council meeting at which time everyone would have an opportunity to speak
two times to the main motion. So, that, that would be the clean slate, and ! can be
supportive of that. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
I'LL WITHDRAW MY SECOND, CHAIR.
CHAIR LEE: Member Tamara, did you. Member Paltin, did you withdraw your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure, i will. I mean. I am.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. you will. You do? You do? You have. You do, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ido.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then the second was withdrawn by Member Sinenci. Now, let
everybody have a chance to talk.
Member Molina, do you want to say anything else?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, nothing else for me. Just look forward to the next
discussion when we have this item at the next Council meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then. Member Sugimura, do you have anything else to say?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Clean slate. I think we'll just start all over next meeting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 104
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, if there are no objections, we will leave this, we'll table this item until
the next Council meeting July 1.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. So, ordered. Okay, that takes care of Committee Report 22-52.
So, we are on the next item. Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-53NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Resolution
COMMISSIONS A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO CONVERTING
APARTMENT BUILDINGS FROM TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL USE TO
LONG-TERM RESIDENTIAL USE", be ADOPTED; and
22-154 entitled "REFERRING TO THE PLANNING
2. That County Communication 21-422. from Councilmember Tamara Paltin, be
FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, hana hou.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 22-53.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on November 3, 2021 and June 2, 2022, and discussed the resolution
referring to the planning commissions a proposed bill relating to converting apartment
buildings from transient vacation rentals use to long-term residential use.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 105
By correspondence dated October 29, 2021, Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
transmitted a revised proposed resolution, which removed the need for the Planning
Director to determine that the building or structure is within the sea level rise exposure
area, and incorporates an effective date of January 1, 2023.
By correspondence dated May 27, 2022, Chair of your Committee transmitted a further
revised proposed resolution which would allow property owners of buildings located in
the agri, in the Apartment District to permanently convert property from transient
vacation rental use to long-term residential use by filing a declaration with the State of
Hawaii Bureau of Conveyances and providing notice to the County.
By correspondence dated May 31, 2022, the Department of Corporation Counsel
transmitted a further revised proposed bill which includes a provision that allows the
Planning Director to enforce the declaration as a violation of Title 19, and
nonsubstantive revisions.
Your Committee noted concerns, consistent of those raised by testifiers, on the
requirement for the declaration to be executed by 100 percent of property owners.
Your Committee supported 67 percent to be a more reasonable percentage.
A Deputy Corporation Counsel explained the intent of the provision is to be a
recordation of a declaration with the Department of Finance, Real Property
Assessment Division that would permanently convert property from transient vacation
rental use to long-term residential use, which could be revised to further clarify the
provision.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-154 and filing of
the communication.
And as to the testifiers' comment on this, any changes to Title 19 first be reviewed by
the Planning Commission, but ultimately, on these areas outside of the SMA we have
the final call. So, this is not one of those SMA cases where they have more power than
us.
I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. It's been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by, I think it was Molina.
But just checking, Molina?
Any further discussion, Members? Hands? Okay. Ready to vote? Is a roll call
needed? Okay , all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 106
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Clerk? Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We can't hear Deputy Clerk. I'm not
sure what's going on, but the audio is not strong.
CHAIR LEE: Testing.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We can hear you. But Deputy Clerk was, we couldn't
hear him.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, okay. Apologies.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, that's better.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-54 NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Bill 67 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE FOR A CHANGE
IN ZONING FROM INTERIM DISTRICT TO B-CT COUNTRY TOWN
BUSINESS DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAUNAKAKAI ,
MOLOKAI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2) 5-3-002:049", be PASSED ON FIRST
READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
1.
That County Communication 18-447, from Councilmember Stacy Crivello, be
FILED.
2.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 107
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 22-54.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to adopt
the, to approve the recommendations in Committee Report 22-54.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on May 25, 2022, and discussed the resolution to refer to the Molokai
Planning Commission, gotta be 2019, a proposed bill for a Change in Zoning from
Interim Zone to B-CT Country To\A/n Business District for real property comprising
32,068 square feet located at Makaena Place, Kaunakakai, Molokai, Hawaii.
Your Committee notes that the Council's Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee (2019-2021 Council term) met on January 30, 2019.
Your Committee notes it previously reported on this matter through Committee Report
19-37. At its meeting of April 5, 2019, the Council adopted the recommendations in
Committee Report 19-37 (Resolution 19-75).
Your Committee notes the Molokai Planning Commission met on October 27, 2021, to
review and approve the proposed bill with no conditions.
Your Committee further notes that change in zoning would make the zoning consistent
with the Molokai Island Community Plan, and supports economic diversification by
continuing to allow existing commercial spaces to be used by the island's small
business.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of Bill 67 (2022) on first reading and
filing of the communication. And incidentally, B-CT does allow multi- family dwellings.
I respectfully ask for the Members support of my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 108
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", three "excused", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions. These resolutions are
recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-150
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF JOHN-RUSSEL
KEIKILANI PHIFER TO THE MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSION
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-150 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-150 WAS ADOPTED U\TER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 124 through 127 for discussion and
action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 109
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-158
AUTHORIZING PROCEEDINGS IN EMINENT
DOMAIN FOR THE ACQUISITION OF REAL
PROPERTY LOCATED AT 5385 LOWER
HONOAPIILANI ROAD. LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAII
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-158 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-151
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL RELATING TO OFF-STREET
PARKING AND LOADING
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-151 be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-151 WAS LATER REFERRED TO THE
PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE. See
pages 122 through 124 for discussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-157
URGING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO
NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE DONATION OF LAND
FROM BIO-LOGICAL CAPITAL, LLC TO THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-157 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-157 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 110 through 114 for discussion and
action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 110
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-159
AUTHORIZING A COUNCIL COMMITTEE TO CONDUCT A
FORMAL INVESTIGATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PIWNNING AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
RELATED TO THE COUNTY'S ISSUANCE OF
DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS FOR REAL PROPERTY
LOCATED AT 5385 LOWER HONOAPI‘IU\NI ROAD,
NAPILI, MAUI, HAWAI'I
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-159 be referred to the Climate Action
Resilience, and Environment Committee.
(See pages 114 through 122 for discussion.)
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci, do-
DISCUSSIQN RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-157
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Consideration for 22-157, please.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what is your motion? You have a motion on this?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-157, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, second by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to waive
the Rules of the Council regarding Resolution 22-157.
Discussion on the Rule? Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 111
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote
of the entire membership of the Council will enable us to consider the proposed
resolution today.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Fortunatelyit's six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused": motion carries.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-157.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
adopt the Resolution 22-157.
Discussion? Member Sinenci.
Bio-Logical Capital, LLC, theCOUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members,
management company of Hana Ranch Land, LLC, is interested in donating six parcels
located in the Hana district to the County of Maui.
The parcels could be used by the County for much needed affordable housing and for
access to Pa'ani Mai County Park Complex, as was previously discussed in our budget
proceedings.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 112
This resolution urges the Mayor to enter into negotiations with Bio-Logical Capital and
to begin talks to acquire these parcels. As you may be aware, Members, Bio-Logical
Capital has recently announced to sell their portions of the Hana Ranch. So, there is
some time sensitivity to acting upon this today. And 1 respectfully ask for the Members
support of my motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo to Member Sinenci, for
his expeditiousness on tackling this issue. Six parcels in Hana, incredible. I, I'm super
supportive of these aina back initiatives, and applaud your effort. Member Sinenci.
Good job. Hana maikai. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, also. Member Sinenci, for this.
So, as you know, we have the affordable housing projects that we're trying to build
already in Hana. And it seems very difficult as we go through, as we're, Na Hale O
Maui, no. Habitat for Humanity is the nonprofit that's trying to move it forward. And,
and it seems like it's costing a lot of money. Do you have any plans of how to move
this forward if we get the land? Are we going to run into situations like what we're
experiencing?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. So, that's irrelevant to urging the Mayor to
enter into negotiations. This is very premature at this point. It's just getting negotiations
started. It's not identifying a developer. So, bringing in a issue that is noton the agenda
at this time is inappropriate. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I ... had the floor.  !hope you don't mind.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 113
CHAIR LEE; I'm sorry. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so i think it's part of important discussions, because
it's great that we're getting land but there's also responsibility greater than receiving a
parcel of land. So, that's why I'm asking the questions. I'm not trying to stop anything
or trying to put a pivotal point into receiving land, because I think once we get land, we
have to figure out how we’re going to proceed. And we already are seeing what's
happening with the, the Habitat for Humanity parcels that has been in discussion for
many years, so.
CHAIR LEE: Is this the question for Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, that's why I was curious.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Paltin, did you want to answer for Member Sinenci? Can you
work it out? I mean--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I'll just. I'll just say real quickly to Member Sugimura. During
our budget deliberations, we did have the Parks Director come on too. And so part of
the, the parcels that are being donated is an access to the Pa'ani Mai County Park.
And so, before we can do anything, that project to continue, we need to acquire those
properties so that we can work on that, on the access to the park. And I believe Director
Karla Peters is able to go ahead and do a budget amendment to accommodate that.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Then we have Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1 can answer Member Sugimura's question. So, when the
County owns land and then we want to see housing built, you put out an RFP and then
it's a competitive process. And then, developers compete to build the housing. Similar
to where, what we're seeing around the police station in Kihei. They want to build
housing on County land there. So, you know, it's  agreat tool. It's called a request for
proposal. And what's most prohibitive to developing housing is the land cost. So, if
the County owns the land, that takes the land cost out of the equation, and so then you
put out an RFP, and then you see who can meet the RFP.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 114
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Otherwise, I'm going to call for the question. All those in
favor of the motion, raise your hand, say "aye".
COUNCiLMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCiLMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, just to confirm with the body, are there any other
objections to the other referrals as read by the Clerk?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the others?
Member Sugimura?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-159
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. On 22-159, which is regarding the
authorization of a Council Committee to conduct a formal investigation and, and of
course, this is that Brown property and we've heard a lot of testimony. I just want to
ask; we have had concerted effort by Member Molina in his Committee over a few
months to look at this issue and bring it up over and over again. And I wondered if,
where he was trying to get to is this point and if this should be referred to his
Committee? Because to me, it fits. But of course, it would be up to him, whether he
would like to take this up. Because I, for a reason you are referring to the CARE
Committee, I guess, because Kelly, it was Kelly's resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, before, you're asking me that question, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 115
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, for Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: But the answer to that is we had already checked with PSLU and the GREAT
Committee and they have very heavy agendas right now. And this will be very time-
consuming. So, Member King volunteered to take this, this item. So, unless, of course,
Mr. Molina has changed his mind?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, I haven't gotten to that point yet. But I just want to try
and answer Member Sugimura's question. I guess when you look at this item it could
go, you know, to GREAT. It could even go to Member Sugimura's question, because
it's asking for an investigation of the Public Works Department, which comes under
Member Sugimura's oversight, and of course, it could go to PSLU and GREAT. And
looking at the resolution, we had five meetings on this already.
And then, of course, as the initiator of the proposal to investigate, Member King, it's
unfortunate she's not here today and she could probably provide some additional
response to that. I'm not sure if she wanted it officially, you know. Would have been
nice if we could have heard on the record. But I know her Committee is not, does not
have as many items like some of our other Committees have. It is a seven-member
Committee, but if everybody's fine with that, I can go along with it, it can go.
And I guess it's a question of timing, too, cause I've got, if I'm correct, we have to
address the new director for the Department of Ag that's coming up in July. So, we've
got a number of things. So, if it's more expeditious to have it heard in CARE first,
before GREAT, I cannot assure you we could have our, you know, have that first
Committee meeting in July reserved for this item, whereas it would appear that maybe
Member King might have, you know, might be able to address this sooner than my
Committee can. So, you know, I have no objections if that's the will of the body to have
this sent to CARE. But just again, seven Members can only vote in that Committee.
Of course, all Members can participate, but whatever the outcome, should it move
forward to Council, then all nine of us can participate. So, that's my response to
Member Sugimura's inquiry. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's where we are today. The, the CARE Committee Chair is the person
who actually initiated this. So, even though it may not fit perfectly under the description
of CARE, it is still relevant, and it's basically her legislation.
Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I have a question then. So, does it mean that as
Councilmembers, we can introduce any legislation we want, it'll get referred to our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 116
Committee, whether it's our departments or not. And I see that happening. One of the
good example is the seabird and infrastructure, because in, it is CARE to a certain
degree, but it is largely infrastructure as my departments are being affected. So, it is
your call. Chair. But I wonder if that's what we can do then? If we want legislation
passed and sent to my Committee, all I have to do is introduce it, and it doesn't even
have to be related to infrastructure or transportation and it'll be allowed by this body?
I see that happening.
CHAIR LEE: That's only one consideration.
Committees have very time-sensitive matters that have to meet certain deadlines. So,
that's why we often ask other Council, I mean Committee Chairs to consider taking
items that don't perfectly fit in their Committee. And this is, this is an example.
The other consideration is some of the
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The other departments are, oh sorry, other Committees
you're saying are too busy that they can't take this up?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Unless they change their minds today.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Let me make a clarification. It's not saying that we can't take
this up. It's like, oh. I'll speak just for my Committee. It's just that I cannot take it up in
as timely a fashion as some other Committees potentially could. So, let me make that
clarification for the record. So, let's not construe this or interpret this as, oh we don't
want it, because we can't take it up. That's not the case. We may not take it up. Oh,
I'll speak again for my Committee, we could take it up, but not in as timely a fashion as
some others would like to have it heard cause it would, maybe I'm guessing wrong.
There may be members of the public or even the initiator of this resolution wanting to
take this up ASAP. So, I want to just make sure that is stated for the record, make that
clarification. So, it's not about not us wanting to take it up because of a heavy workload,
it's just more, in my case, about taking it up in  amore timely fashion. So if another
Committee can take it up in a more timely fashion, then so be it, you know. That could
work.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair, for my first opportunity to speak. I. I
support Member Molina's recommendation of either IT or CARE. I think Member
Molina, in the GREAT Committee, has been scheduling this item for discussion like
every other month or something. So, I think he, yeah, so i mean, five times total so
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 117
far. So, I think Member Molina has been doing an excellent job at keeping on this issue
to keep it top of mind, to keep the discussions flowing so that we're continuing to work
together with the Department and the community to get to the bottom of this.
I'm not sure if since Member King is not here, but it seems that if she proposed this
resolution that perhaps she intends to be on the investigative group that she's
proposing to establish. So, I think it would make sense under, under CARE, and then
the TIG can be formed under CARE, under Member King. And then she can be on
that group, and, and do that work as she's proposing to in her resolution.
I think that in the GREAT Committee, as we've discussed many times now, Member
Paltin has provided many suggestions on how to move forward including going to the
Board of Ethics. Because I, I understand we've been receiving a lot of testimony on
this, but a TIG, an investigative group, is only as productive as the members in it who
are able and willing to invest the amount of time and energy into figuring out solutions.
And so, I, I'm not sure what kind of magic testifiers think that a TIG would do? But if
Member King intends to be on this TIG, I, I could be supportive of that. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other opinions. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I didn't,  Ididn't know what Member King
had in mind. 1 thought it was just a resolution. And I didn't know it was a TIG or what.
But what I did see was the November 4, deadline. And with the four-month calendar
that I had put out prior to seeing this agenda, and the Charter deadline items, I'm not
sure that I can make that November 4, deadline.
On a separate note, if discussion is done on that item, I did have your item on my four-
month calendar. 22-151 referring to the Maui Planning Commission, because I
oversee Title 19.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you saying you want to take this item?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 22-151.
CHAIR LEE: No, this other one that we're talking about?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, because I'm not sure where she wanted to go with it. I
mean--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 118
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, 1 don't know. When i read the resolution, I didn't know how
she, what, what her plans were. And so. I'm okay with her running it as how she sees
fit and me being a participator. I guess the only issue is that if everyone wants to vote
on it, and not everyone's a Member of her Committee, but it's, at this point it's just a
resolution to let a Council Committee take it up. And so, if the resolution passes or
fails, if it passes, I'm not clear on what the next step is. is that, is it then after the
resolution that a Council Committee would take it up, then they would take it up. You
know, so it's, at this point it's just a resolution that a Council Committee investigated.
And then, some of the testifiers were saying TIG, some of the testifiers were saying
special counsel. But I didn't read either of those in the resolution, so I'm not clear on
which direction that Member King wanted to go. So, if she provides more direction in
her Committee on this resolution, then we can make decisions based on that, as she's
not here right now to provide that direction in which she wanted this resolution to go.
Cause, we just were hearing from the testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, in speaking for her she's, she's willing to take this into her Committee.
And that is the reason why I concurred. But if, but however, if you want to take it, you
know. I'm sure she would be happy to turn it over because you have a nine Member
Committee. But otherwise, we can go with what's on, what the plan was today was to
refer it to the CARE Committee. And my understanding is she is going to recommend
that a special investigative committee be formed, whether it's a TIG or something else.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. I mean, I'm cool with that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good. So, Member Sinenci, was that a yes or you wanted to ask a
question?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes. No, Chair, I can be supportive of that. It sounds like
Member Molina is busy, and Member Paltin. So, I can, and I believe she, she did
express that should anybody else not have time for it that she would take it. And since
the sea-level rise is within the SMA area and this project is, I can support it going to
CARE. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just, 1 have a procedural question
for maybe Mr. Raatz? On page 3 of the resolution, in the beginning, the first "BE IT
RESOLVED" clause, it says that it authorizes the Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 119
Committee to conduct a formal investigation of the Department of Planning and public,
and Department of Public Works related to the County issuance of lower, sorry, of
department [sic] approvals for the real property located at the property that we've been
discussing. So, my question, my procedural question is if this resolution were to pass
in a different Committee assigning this investigative group to be formed under a
different Committee, can one Committee form an investigative group under a different
Committee?
CHAIR LEE; David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you, Chair.
Vice-Chair, for the question. The Committees serve to provide recommendations to
the Council. So, if this resolution gets referred to a Committee, that Committee's task
would be to make a recommendation to the full Council on whether to adopt a
resolution authorizing a formal investigation by the stated standing Committee. So, to
answer your question directly, no. Committee cannot mandate that another Committee
do anything. But a Committee can make a recommendation to the Council, it would
be the Council taking that action if it played out that way, adopting the resolution, and
authorizing, perhaps, another Committee to conduct an investigation even though it
was a different Committee that considered the authorizing resolution.
And thank you
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Mr. Raatz. So, if we send this to CARE
Committee, then the Members of the CARE Committee would then make a
recommendation to the full Council to decide on whether this first "BE IT RESOLVED"
clause in forming a formal investigation or doing some kind of formal investigation
under whatever Committee it would recommend to the full Council. And then, the full
Council would then make that decision on under which Committee this formal
investigation would occur?
CHAIR LEE; David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Thank you, Chair. Yes. Vice-Chair, that's
accurate. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Mr. Raatz. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more comments? So, getting back-
Oh, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21.2022
Page 120
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, so I think Member Kama's staff asked if I would take this
up. And I said. I, I, presuming because she wants to be a participant, and I said that
this is just the resolution. If it passes and she wants to be a participant, I could take it
up in my Committee. I might need some extra meeting days. But you know, we'll
discuss that in Committee. But this is just a resolution, as I understood it, as Mr. Raatz
explained it. So, this isn't actually the investigation. It's a resolution to authorize the
investigation. And so, I mean, that’s why I'm supportive of CARE taking it, so that they
can let us know what direction they're intending to go. And then, you know, depending
on how involved, and what not, it looks, then I can plan my calendar accordingly. But
just a resolution at this point.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Well, I guess this thing is not
as easy as this looks, yeah. So, my understanding as I see it, it's a resolution,
assuming it's taken up in CARE. If it passes, then if the body decides to form a TIG,
then that has to go to, we're going to need another Committee, right, to form the TIG?
And then, would that Committee then be more than likely Member Paltin's Committee,
then? So, there's a number of steps, yeah, if we, rather than, you know, if we're looking
at doing a TIG, so then it becomes an issue of time, yeah. So, there's a lot to discuss,
yeah. So, it's not just, it's not just done in one step, yeah. So, discuss the resolution
first in CARE. If it passes, then just got to go through what, one reading? Or a
resolution, one reading at Council, yeah? So, then that, let's say that covers July.
Then maybe in August, Member Paltin could take it up for the formation of a TIG.
My, I don't know, I see Mr. Raatz. I don't know if Mr. Raatz wants to add his thoughts.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Would that be a logical process?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair Lee and Councilmember
Molina for the question. I think the only observation I would make is that, as the
resolution is currently drafted, it doesn't envision a TIG, which is a temporary
investigative committee, which is a subset of a Committee. It envisions a standing
Committee, in particular, the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee
conducting a formal investigation. So, a TIG is a different procedure that could be
considered by the Council, or a standing Committee at some point. But it's, it's a
different mechanism than a formal investigation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Mr. Raatz. So, as I interpret it, Madam Chair, so
it goes to Planning and Land Use and then they could make a determination whether
to go TIG or hire special counsel outside, yeah? So, and again that will take, it's
another process, right? One meeting in the Committee, it has to go to Council for full
reading. So, before anything can formally take place, you're looking at what, August,
September? Depending on what happens with the vote, yeah, in two different
Committees? CARE and assuming if it passes CARE, it goes to Planning and Land
Use, and then Council. So, okay, just trying to get a full understanding of how this
process is going to work out, should it advance. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. So, so my hope, or understanding was that
under Member King's direction, she would provide us in the blanks of the questions
that we're asking right now. So, that's why I'm supportive of sending it to her
Committee. Because, I mean, if it comes to my Committee or your Committee, we're
not really sure what her intentions were. We heard from testifiers, TIG, special counsel,
this and that. So, 1 would hope that, you know, as passing this resolution, it gives us
some direction that we can agree on and then take that action if we agree on the
direction. But just a resolution itself, to me. I'm not clear what her intention is on how
to move forward. So, and 1 got stuff.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. I just have to say something. I'm
going to play the role of grumpy old Councilman. You know, we had two important
matters on this agenda today. And I'm not going to express my, you know, Member
King is doing what she feels is best, which is fine. But it would have been nice if she
were here today. And we had a lot of testimony on both the outdoor lighting bill and
also this. So, just for future considerations, and of course include myself, if you're not
going to be here for a Council meeting where you have two very important matters like
this that's going to generate public testimony, then don't put it on the agenda, you know.
So, there are a lot of good questions we could have asked Member King, if she were
here. So, I mean, I don't know why, you know, she had to go and do her off-island
trip? I mean, she has her reasons and that's fine. But just for future consideration, so
we're not here left with asking a lot of questions, especially a Member who's initiating
legislation or resolutions. It would have been helpful for all of us if the Member was
here and we could have maybe potentially resolved and gotten a lot of clarity as to how
we want to proceed with not only the outdoor lighting, but this resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 122
So, I just have to make that statement. And please forgive me colleagues. Just, maybe
it's just late in the day, but this is just something from years of experience. If you're not
going to be here for your bills or legislation, then don't put it on the agenda. Cause
that \A/ay then we're all here wondering what's going on. And the public, who was
expecting maybe potential action on any of this, then, and there's no action because
the initiator of the legislation is not here. So, and, you know, nothing, just a little
frustration and grumpiness. But I'm sure we can all learn from this process. So, next
time, let's all be here. If we're going to introduce legislation, be here at Council. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more comments. Members? Alright. Well, so are there any
objections to referring this to the CARE Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, so ordered. That part was fast. So, we have the rest to refer to the
Committees as noted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to those?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Paltin?
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-151
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I did have your 22-151 on my four-month calendar, and that's
referral to the Planning Commission?
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. So, you want to adopt that, right?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes, please, if Member Sugimura doesn't mind?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 123
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.You want to call that up, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Again.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: So, the item in question is Resolution 22-151?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Member Paltin. I can't make the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO REFER THAT TO THE PSLU COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Second? Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to refer this matter to the, this matter to the PSLU Committee.
Any discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; No. Just, you know, from the last time when it was posted on
the agenda as a bill, I saw it and I put it on my four-month calendar, so it does have a
slot in the lineup.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm hoping it won't take that much time. And so then, I work
with Planning Department, or-
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please raise
your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 124
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused": motion carries.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-150
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
"RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF JOHN-RUSSEL KEIKILANl PHIFER TO
THE MOLOKAI PU\NNING COMMISSION".
Chair, consideration for Resolution 22-150
CHAIR LEE: Alright. You're taking action on this? You're going to try and take action on
this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I would like to ask the Members consideration on,
on this item. My apologies for not notifying Chair, GREAT Committee Chair Molina
ahead of time and, and you as well, Chair, on my intended action to ask for the
Members consideration on this item. I will make the motion and if Members disagree
about taking it up on the floor, then we can send it to Committee.
SO, I BELIEVE THE MOTION WOULD BE TO WAIVE RULE 7,
7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Who's? Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 125
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina
to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Resolution 22-150.
Discussion on the waiver?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, the time-sensitivity on this item,
as I stated earlier when this was on Member Molina's agenda in GREAT Committee,
Mr. Phifer was nominated to be on the Public Works Commission. And I asked if we
could deny, disapprove. I'm sorry, disapprove Mr. Phifer for the planning. Public Works
Commission so that we could consider him for the Molokai Planning Commission.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, on the waiver. Just on the waiver, yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, so that, that's the time-sensitivity is that-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -the, the Molokai Planning Commission has been
struggling with quorum.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", zero "noes", three "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 126
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo Chair.
i MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION ENTITLED ’’REU\TING
TO THE APPOINTMENT OF JOHN-RUSSEL KEIKILANI
PHIFER TO THE MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSION".
And to file, oh no, there's no filing. That's it. That's the motion, adopt the resolution.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, second? Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina
to adopt the Resolution 22-150.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And mahalo Members for thisMahalo Chair,
consideration in taking up this resolution so quickly. As I stated earlier, Mr. John-
Russel Phifer was nominated for the Public Works Commission by the Mayor. And we
disapproved him so that we could take him up, take up his nomination to be on the
Molokai Planning Commission. He would be completing the term for our late, great
Aunty Colette Machado. So, this is, this wouldn't be a full term. This would, this would
be the remaining portion. I believe it's about three years.
And our Molokai Planning Commission has struggled with achieving quorum because
of the two terms that expired and then we, we lost two of our commissioners. And so,
I know the Molokai Planning Commission would appreciate us expediting this so that
they're able to meet. Cause without quorum, they're unable to meet. And we know
that the planning commissions all have clocks associated with making decisions on the
items.
So, I know that Members, you know, may not have had the opportunity to meet with
Mr. Phifer and if you would like that opportunity, I can coordinate that after the fact.
But again, this isn't a full term, so if Members are unhappy with his performance, then
it won't be for five years. But I fully support Mr. Phifer and I think he's going to do a
fabulous job and I ask for the Members support of, of Mr. Phifer. And mahalo to
Mr. Mossman and the Mayor for his nomination. Mahalo Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And I think taking action on
the floor today makes sense. We did previously, in the GREAT Committee, have an
overview or a discussion on Mr. Phifer's qualifications. So, being that the Commission
is of course short-handed, as the Vice-Chair had stated, it makes sense so this way
you get somebody on there now rather than having to go through the normal process
of going through Committee and Council. So, I stand in full support of this. And I thank
the Vice-Chair for this consideration. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI,
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Five "ayes" [sic], zero "noes", three "excused": motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Not six "ayes"?
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, six "ayes". Six "ayes".
Okay. Mr. Clerk, is the only resolution left 22-158, which you read earlier, yeah?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members, to that referral? Resolution 22-158. Okay.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Bills.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 128
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills,
recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted;
The following bills are
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 107 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.96, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING SALES PRICE GUIDELINES
The recommended action is that Bill No. 107 (2022) be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 108 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10.76 AND SECTION
13.04A.070, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO USE OF VEHICLES FOR
PURPOSES OF HUMAN HABITATION AT COUNTY PARKING LOTS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 108 (2022) be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 109 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 3.31, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO GRANTS FOR HOME RESTORATION
The recommended action is that Bill No. 109 (2022) be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 129
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 110 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.48.475, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO HOMES OF UNMARRIED SURVIVING SPOUSES OF
VETERANS WHO DIED WHILE ON DUTY AND TOTALLY DISABLED
VETERANS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 110 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to these referrals as noted?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Bills second and final.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills for second and final reading.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 74. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 10.48.040, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON UAKEA ROAD, HANA,
MAUI, HAWAII
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I originally was going to take up bill, my two
bills coming up together, but I'm going to take it up separately.
SO, AT THIS TIME, MEMBERS, BILL 74, CD1 (2022), I MOVE
TO PASS IT ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 130
CHAIR LEE; Second? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: This is Uakea. This is Shane Sinenci's kuleana.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay, I see him.
Member Sugimura moved to pass Bill 74 on second and final reading, seconded by
Member Sinenci.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Section 10.48.040, Maui County Code, to prohibit parking on both sides of Uakea
Road, beginning at Hau‘oli Road through the southern end of Uakea Road in Hana,
Maui, Hawaii.
Bill 74, CD1 (2022) would amend
If you remember this, it was highly recommended by the departments, as well as the
Hana Hotel.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, and I wanted to mahalo Member Sugimura and her
staff for bringing this forward so timely. And just to add, parking along the side of this
road is a problem for several reasons as mentioned by Member Sugimura, for safety,
emergency access, resident/guest access, and property damage.
So, although the no parking signs will likely take some time to put up, but we're already
seeing some illegal parking in the area, but we are seeing more police presence. And
as evidence on certain areas of the Hana Highway, some visitors just do not abide to
the no parking signs. So, we definitely need more enforcement by the police. Mahalo
again.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, AND
KING.
fi.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", three "noes", I mean, three "noes", three "excused
motion carries.
zero noes
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 98 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR, STATE OF HAWAII. TO AUDIT THE
SCHEDULE OF ALLOCATIONS OF THE EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
OF THE STATE OF HAWAII TO MEET THE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
UNDER GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENT
NUMBER 68
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair, if there are no objections by our
colleagues, may I ask for the Deputy Clerk to call up Bill 89 as well?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21, 2022
Page 132
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 89 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.44.015,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO SALARIES OF DEPUTIES
CORPORATION COUNSEL AND DEPUTIES PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 98 (2022) AND BILL 89 (2022) ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and seconded by Member Molina to
pass Bills 98 and 89 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Bill 98 (2022) authorizes the Mayor
to enter into an intergovernmental agreement that would authorize funding for the
Employees' Retirement System audits for Fiscal Year 2022, '23, '24, and '25.
Bill 89 (2022) would amend Section 2.44.015, Maui County Code, to set the pay rates
for Deputy Corporation Counsel and Deputies Prosecuting Attorneys. 1 ask for the
Members continued support of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye'
raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, AND
KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 133
CHAIR LEE; Okay, six "ayes", three "excused zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 100 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.98
MAUI COUNTY CODE, ALLOWING PARKS AND
FACILITIES TO BE NAMED AFTER FAMILIES
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 100 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass Bill 100
on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. The bill would amend Chapter 2.98,
Maui County Code, to add a definition for "family"; amend the definition for
"organization" to include a reference to a family; and list the information required to
name a County park or a facility, facility after  afamily versus an individual.
And I ask for your support of this as we are trying to, this came up as we were trying
to name the Kula Community Center facility after the Von Tempsky Family. And I will
add to that discussion, because it came up why are we trying to do this unless if it has
some kind of Hawaiian or cultural, 1 guess, framework for it. But the family that we are
trying to name this after, and that's why it came up, has donated and given a lot of land
on that whole ahupua'a to the community, including the Holy Ghost Church and other
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 134
facilities, tennis courts, all of that that the County and the community now enjoys. So,
just as a little plug as to why we're doing this, that is a family that has brought up this
discussion for this in my Committee. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. I will be voting in support of the
motion. I want to take a step, an additional step back further to clarify. So, the Kula
Community, the Kula Community Center--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Center.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're unmuted. Was, was built a while ago. And
the Von Tempsky Ghana was very happy to have it named the Kula Community Center
and to not have it named after their family. It wasn't until someone tried to name it after
someone else that the family felt like that was disrespectful, because that was their
family's land that was donated to the County. And, and it was inappropriate for it to be
named after someone else. And so, and we know this, we have evidence of this,
because it was the Kula Community Center for a while. It was built a while ago and
it's been Kula Community Center and it's been fine that way.
And so, the reason I have been asking questions of the testifiers is because I think
perhaps this practice is not really compatible. I understand the good intent behind it,
but as we heard during first reading and in Committee by Member Johnson and by, I
think testifiers who brought it up, that many of the facilities that have a namesake for,
you know, is honored with the name are mostly men. There aren't many females, so
there's, again, more inequity as we're talking about honoring the great Patsy Mink and
yet, there's inequity in naming County facilities to not honor women. And so, you know,
like that, that will likely continue.
And, and then there's, there's a lot of families in the area, as we heard from Ms. Apana
in testimony that, you know, felt like they, they weren't sufficiently consulted and a fight
almost broke out, she said at the Waihee Park. And I don't know the details of that,
but Member Paltin was nodding her head when Ms. Apana was, was, was testifying.
And so, she likely knows the details of that.
But you know, it creates the, this division and it's not a Hawaiian framework. It's about
when Hawaiians' name areas, it's for the resources that it's known for. It's about
teaching the next generation about the area itself, so that it has a purpose. And the
purpose is so that you know what can grow there, what is found there, if there's a lot
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 135
of water, if the water is crazy like, you know, Wailuku. Or if there's not a lot of water
and it's dry, or if there's a lot of mud, or if there's a lot of hala, you know, orMaluuluolele,
which, you know, talked about the, the ulu groves in that area. So, it. it describes the,
what that area is known for and so it serves that purpose generation after generation.
And so, the practice of naming, like facilities, places after people, you know, like it's
nice to honor them. But it, like I said earlier, it really has a colonizer energy to it. And
I'm just not really supportive of that. So, 1 will support this bill today, because if we are
going to have this practice, I agree that families, you know, it shouldn't just be one
person. It can be a family. So, for the purpose of this bill. I'm supportive. But for the
entire process, I don't know, I might introduce something to repeal the whole practice.
I'm not supportive of that. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. You know, generally speaking, I agree. I
vividly recall the Caldito Waihee Ballpark situation. It was, I remember reading the
newspaper and just being kind of shocked at the Mayor at that time and his disrespect
for the people of the valley. And, and thereby, you know, kind of disrespecting
Mr. Caldito's legacy by bringing that to a situation where he had passed away and he
couldn't even offer his input on it. But at the time, I just remember thinking to myself,
like, you know, it's Waihee Valley and they want to name the ballpark after Mr. Caldito.
And wouldn't a great compromise have been, you know, the Caldito Ballpark in Waihee
Valley or the Von Tempsky Community Center in Kula. Because it's the facility that's
getting the name and, and you know, I would hope it's less colonizery in today's
practice and more just, you know, good works and what not.
But I think it's important when we're naming County facilities to recognize that that
facility itself is not the area. You know, like I would always hear people, you know,
slang call Flemings or DT or whatever, but the bay itself is Honokahua Bay. And so,
you know, I would be like oh, DT Flemings Beach Park at Honokahua Bay or HA
Baldwin Beach Park at. . . But, you know, so I just think it's important, like, you know
if it's a concern that we emphasize both, because of the significance of both. And so,
you know, just because you name a facility, it shouldn't replace the name of the area.
So, that's just my two cents and I, I'll support the motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with two cents? Okay, ready to vote. All those in favor of the
motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21,2022
Page 136
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI
SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. AND
KING.
CHAIR LEE: Six "ayes", three "excused", zero "noes". And so, the motion passes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Music to my ears. Anybody have any final announcements or anything?
Today's not Friday, so I can't say have a nice weekend.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. One of those rare times I
have a parting comment at the end of a Council meeting. But no, 1 want to thank you
for facilitating us for a long day. So, thank you for your leadership there.
And my apologies for coming across a bit gruff earlier. Just, maybe it was just because
it was a long day. But especially to my colleague from South Maui, I know she works
very hard at what she does. But anyway, one of those days. But I appreciate her work,
as well as ail of your work, everyone else here on the Council, Committee staff and
thank you all for your hard work. And to the members of the community who come out
and share their mana'o on the various issues that we deal with. . . . Madam Chair, if
you can confirm, we have a Chair's meeting, yeah, tomorrow, 2:00.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. We'll see you right back in here. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
June 21. 2022
Page 137
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I just want to say that on Saturday is Korean
War Veterans candlelight service in front of the War Memorial Gym. And it's something
very special to the veterans. And it starts at 5:30, to honor our Korean War Veterans.
I'm sure Mr. Molina knows that. He's a veteran himself. So, see you there.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anybody else? If not, where's the gavel? This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of June 21, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 4:10 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
220621/lks;jm
Testimonyon Resolutions 22-158 Eminent Domain and 22-159 Invi
Planning and Public Works. I am testifying on both simultaneoujjjj. jyu 21 AH D 53
OFFI^ OF THE
COUNTY CLERKGood Morning Chair and elected Council Members,
I want to testify on how important it is that Councilmember Kelly King's resolution
22-159 for a forma! investigation into Departments' Planning and Public Works be
in the hands of a Chair and Committee which truly cares about the necessity and
the importance of this Investigation to the County. While Council member
Paltin's Resolution 22-158 for Eminent Domain appears to resolve the issue of the
Brown Development, it tries to "fix" the problem by rewarding the bad actors; It
pays off the Developer with taxpayer funds, and whitewashes the alleged
violations of Director McLean and Public Works as if these alleged violations never
happened, with no determinations made, no accountability and says we're Pau.
Pau is my new acronym in this election cycle for Politics as Usual.
Just make it go away so no one has to pay. But, of course that's not true, because
the County Taxpayer always has always had to pay for the bad faith actions of the
Developer, and the misdeeds of Administration Officials, whenever they
historically, have misused and acted outside of their authority. Might I add that
they have also always done so with the support of your attorneys, in the
Department of the Corporation Counsel. It is an historical case study of unlawful
actions by County Administration Officials. The thousands of uncollected
Developer Deferral Agreements through Public Works, the Developments at
Montana Beach, Olowalu, Palama Drive, the case of Christopher Salem vs. Mayor
Victorino and Director McLean, and now, the Greg Brown Development.
Whereas Resolution 22-158 for Eminent Domain tries to just make the Greg
Brown Development go away, Ms. King's Resolution 22-159 empowers this
Council to govern, to use its Charter powers to get to the bottom of it, so that
these recurring incidents stop recurring over and over again; costing taxpayers
millions and millions of dollars; creating safety issues, and, harming both the local
physical and Hawaiian cultural environment.
L “
The Eminent Domain Reso makes me wonder. Has its author already been in
C^c^Vii^umdatiani-^Vith Director McLean, Corp Counsel, and even Greg Brown
about it to help them Houdini there way of it, and using the Hawaiian Community
a.s’a ct^.ef.'!(^ve'? Enquiring minds want to know. 1 don't trust the intent behind
Resolution 22-158. Does it require an alleged unlawful development in Napili to
create a necessary Hawaiian cultural education center? Or, is this just the usual
way to give them a way out without anyone taking any responsibility for anything.
Is that what we want to model to the young people interested in politics?
Resolution 22-159 for a formal investigation in Planning and Public Works is good
government. It is all about the public interest. The Council, through this
resolution provides the checks and balances to an administration which Directors
have more in common with developers than with the County taxpayer; and all to
often, as has been demonstrated historically, serve the Developer's interests at
the expense of the public's interest. Remember, these Directors are in a revolving
door with the development community. Resolution 22-159 is an opportunity for
the Council to be properly informed and educated, to be proactive, to mitigate
present and future harm and liability, and to govern effectively for the people
who depend upon you to use all the tools at your disposal; that is, the Powers of
the Charter, to get to the facts and then consider what to do about them.
So, and again, Chair, it is critically important that Resolution 22-159 be sent to a
Committee with a Chair that is as committed and dedicated to this Investigation
as the Community which testifies today in its support. This Resolution was
proposed to Councilmember King by Joshua Downer of the Napili Bay Community
Association when it became clear that this Administration appeared to be acting
in contravention of County Rules and Ordinances, in support of a Developer who
had made false representations to procure both an SMA exemption, and a
Building Permit. For example, today, in written testimony, the Council has before
it a General Contractor's assessment of the purported $15,000 valuation by Greg
Brown which is almost 20 times that. This false representation, to minimize fines
and penalties, so he defrauds the County for a second time while Director McLean
continues to keep this Council in the dark. This is included in written Testimony by
the Chairman of the Board of the Napili Bay Community Association, and there is
additional evidence provided by Pat Lindquist, President of the Napili Bay and
Beach Foundation. This kind of obfuscation, and the recent scathing audit of the
Planning Department in support cries out for a formal investigation to determine
who is really working for whom.
A final point. A developer who acts in bad faith cannot prevail in court, even if the
County permitted the development. The law throughout the United States is
clear on this. So, as Councilmember King has proposed, we must do our due
diligence and let the facts lead the Council to make appropriate findings and
determinations through a well executed formal investigation.
1 wish to thank Council member King for her commitment to getting to the facts
wherever they may lead. I believe that this inspires our youth who aspire to
actively engage In government, that we have leaders who have the courage and
determination to create clean and honest County government, which we can be
proud of. And while, this Resolution might normally end up in the GREAT
Committee, if the GREAT Chair has too much on his plate; then perhaps the Chair
would consider putting this important Resolution in the competent hands of
Councilmember King and the CARE Committee.
Thank you.
Christopher P. Fishkin
Kihei, HI 96753
808-213-4140
Countjjr^Iet^
sam swvs.net <sam@swvs.net>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:53 PM
County Clerk
testimony for 6/21/2022 22-159 and 22-158
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from sam@swvs.net. Learn why this is important
support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Planning and Public Works's
handling of Greg Brown’s Napili monstrosity and Tamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to
build a Hawaiian Cultural Center at that site instead.
Thanks
Sam Small
Makawao
3OO
Q -n
c ^ m
p oo moo 3 <
^ mO
m -H
xm ●o
1
EARTHJUSTICE RHCEiVED
WU M2I AH 7: no
OrFiSe OF TH!--
BOUNTY CLERK
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF BILL 21, CD 1
SEABIRD AND BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION
(Committee Report No. 22-47 (First Reading))
Maui County Council
June 21, 2022
9:00 a.m.
Aloha Council Members:
Earthjustice submits this testimony on behalf of the Center for Biological Diversity and
Conservation Council for Hawaii in strong stipport of Bill 21, CD 1, which would amend Maui
County's lighting ordinance to increase protections for Hawaii's threatened and endangered
seabirds. Bill 21 is consistent with the best available science on how to minimize harm to
imperiled seabirds from artificial lights. Bill 21 also provides clear guidance on how to
implement these new lighting requirements with minimal burden on the community. For these
reasons, the County should whole-heartedly adopt this measure as a win-win for the
community and Hawaii's native seabirds.
Artificial lights in Maui County regularly attract and disorient Hawaiian petrels, band-rumped
storm petrels, and Newell's shearwaters as they navigate between the ocean and nesting
colonies, resulting in fallout, injury, and death. State and federal wildlife agencies charged with
helping to prevent these species from going extinct recognize that artificial light attraction poses
an ongoing threat to the species' survival and recovery. Best practices to minimize light
attraction, and help prevent extinction, include reducing short wavelength "blue light" in
outdoor lighting fixtures, preventing outdoor lighting from shining upward or over the ocean,
and eliminating reflective surfaces that bounce light into the sky. Bill 21 would require
compliance with these best practices to give our native seabirds the best chance of survival.
To address concerns about increased regulatory burdens for businesses and residents. Bill 21,
CD 1 provides a reasonable phase-in period for the replacement of existing outdoor lighting. See
Proposed Section 20.35.070.B (exempting existing lighting for three years). Bill 21, CD 1 also
facilitates compliance with the new lighting requirements by adopting the definition of "blue
light content" found in Hawaii County's lighting ordinance.* Using the same definition of
"blue light content" provides consistency for businesses operating in both locations, and also
provides a template for implementation given that Hawai‘i County has had a blue-light content
requirement on the books for the past ten years. Finally, the bill provides that the director of
* Compare Proposed Section 20.35.060.D with Hawaii County Code § 14-51(a)(9); see also
Hawaii County Code § 14-55, Table 14-A (specifying that LED fixtures must have "less than 2%
blue light content").
MID-PACIFIC 8S0 RICHARDS STREET, SUITE 400 HONOLULU HI 96813
T: 808.599.2436 F: 808-521.6841 MPOFFICE(5)EARTHJUSTICE.ORG WWW.EARTHJUSTICE.ORG
Earthjustice Testimony Re: Bill 21, CD 1 (First Reading)
June 21, 2022, Maui County Council
i c m
public works will maintain a list of light fixtures that comply with lighting requirements. See
'Proposed'S^tion 20.35.060.F. These provisions will ensure a smooth transition to seabird
frieridly ’figHting in Maui County and reduce any regulatory burdens on the community.
Bill 21, CD 1 is a crucial step forward for seabird conservation in Maui County and provides a
clear path forward for businesses and residences to install seabird friendly lighting. For these
reasons, we respectfully urge the County Council to pass this bill.
Mahalo nui for the opportunity to provide this testimony.
Leina'ala L. Ley
Attorney
Earthjustice
County Clerk
Bob Adams <drbobadams@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:01 PM
County Clerk
James B. Forrest
Fwd: Comments on Bill 21
Comments or council copy.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
OgOSubject:
Attachments:
 "Tl
c-n m
aH N>
-< O
<
oo- T1
m -H rn?iX DX rn oOl
Council Chairman,
Apologies for hitting send button to fast.
My name is Bob Adams and I am serving as a resource for James Forrest
on this work.
I look forward to hearing the discussion on this very interesting
environmental bill. I have worked with several organziations on these
types of issues.
Regards,
Bob Adams
C&W Energy Solutions,
www.cwenerQvu5a.com
Chips&Wafers,
Office: 480-998-1694
Cell: 480-993-6806
Fax: 480-922-7003
Skype: drbobadams@amail.com
5234 East Hatcher Rd
Paradise Valley, AZ 85253
1
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
MOANA M. LUTEY
Corporation Counsel
RICHELLE M. THOMSON
First Deputy
DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET, 3^'" FLOOR
WAILUKU, MAUI, FIAWAII 96793
EMAIL CORPCOUN@MAUlCOUNTY.COV
TELEPHONE: (808)270-7740
LYDIA A. TODA
Risk Management Officer
May 24, 2022
Memorandum
TO: Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee
FROM: Keola R. Whittaker, Deputy Corporation Counsel
SUBJECT: Ordinance on Protecting Seabirds from Outdoor Lighting
Bill No. 21 GDI (2022)
For the reasons identified below, our office is unable to approve the subject
Bill as to form and legality, as currently constructed. We are working on an
alternative version of the Bill which meets the policy goal updating the outdoor
lighting ordinance to regulate lighting with high blue light content.
The proposed Bill contains conflicting provisions.
The Bill requires that all outdoor lights - both residential and commercial
- be “filtered light emitting diode fixtures...” or filtered LED lights. (Section
20.35.060(D)) The ordinance also appears to allow for non-LED lights. (Section
20.25.060(E) (neon) and Section 20.35.090 (low pressure sodium, high pressure
sodium, and others)). We request clarification on whether the intent is to ban all
non-LED lights.
1.
We are not aware of any state or municipality that requires all outdoor
lights to be filtered LED lights. We recommend that the Bill be clarified and
conflicting provisions be removed.
2. LED filters are not available on the open market, making compliance
difficult to impossible.
As drafted, the Bill would require adding filters to LED lights. However,
LED filters are not commonly used and are not available on the open market.
Compliance with this requirement would be difficult to impossible.
Requiring the purchase of filters — which we understand is only available
from a single vendor — would make it difficult for Maui residents to comply with
the ordinance. Moreover, adding a filter to the light may affect the manufacturer’s
warranties for lights because they would alter the light’s intended use. This may
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
Pa 2
lead to unnecessary legal liabilities for the County, businesses, residents, and
anyone who complies with the ordinance.
Furthermore, requiring the use of LED light fixtures that contain high blue
light content and then requiring the addition of  afilter to reduce blue light is
more complex than the simpler solution of requiring use of LEDs with a lower
blue light content.
We therefore recommend the Bill remove the requirement to add a filter to
all LED lights. We recommend alternative language below.
3. The Bill’s definition of “blue light” makes it difficult to enforce.
We found no outside support for the definition of “blue light content”
contained in the bill. No lightbulb purchased at the store would contain this
“blue light content” measurement making it nearly impossible for residents to
comply with this requirement.
The bill defines “blue light content” as “the ratio of the amount of energy
emitted by the outdoor light fixture between 400 and 500 nm divided by the
amount of energy between 400 and 700 nm”. The ordinance requires that all
outdoor light - including those used in private residential homes - contain “no
more than 2 percent of blue light content.”
It is our understanding that measuring blue light content using this
particular ratio requires equipment and information that is unavailable to most
residents. If passed in its current form, residents would not know how to comply
with the ordinance and it is not clear how the County would enforce the
ordinance.
In addition, this definition of blue light content used in this ordinance has
not been adopted by any major agency or organization, and it is not clear why
that definition should be used since it would be difficult to measure. According
to the U.S. Department of Energy, “blue light” is  aterm used as shorthand to
describe a variety of ranges of wavelengths but there is no consensus definition
of blue light; light colors vary along a continuum and there’s no single, discrete
definition of blue or any other color. Visible light is usually defined as having
wavelengths in the range of 400-700 nanometers:
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
3
300
UV350
400 A
450
500
VIS550nm
600-
650
W ^r700
IR750
800
Blue light ranges have been reported by different organizations as 424 nm
- 491 nm; 450 nm -500 nm; and 450 nm - 480 nm. The Cegep de Sherbrooke, a
Canadian university with a focus on astronomy and atmospheric science,
broadly defines the blue range as 405-530 nm and recommends a metric called
“% Blue,” which sums the radiant power in that range, dividing by the total power
emitted between 380 and 780 nm. The definition of “blue light power content”
provided in Maui County’s current streetlight standards is based on the
“International Dark Sky Association’s (IDA) definition of blue light content which
is the sum of energy between 405-530 nm divided by the sum of energy from
380-730nm times the total power output in watts.” It is not clear why the draft
bill does not adopt this same definition of “blue light content” and instead uses
a measurement without any reference to an outside entity that has adopted such
definition.
We recommend removing this definition in its entirety and adopting
instead the correlated color temperature scale, described below.
4. As an alternative, consider using of the Correlated Color Temperature
scale because it used by the lighting industry, and has been used in
State of Hawaii law and the laws of many other jurisdictions.
The lighting industry uses correlated color temperature (CCT), measured
in Kelvin to describe the perceived color of a broad-spectrum light source such
as LED lights. Color temperatures reaching 5000 Kelvin (K) appear blueish in
tone and are typically referred to as “cooler” colors. Kelvins between 2700-3000
(K) are yellowish and are referred to as “warm” colors.
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
Page 1 4
i,':
AAA A A A A AAA
3000K 4O00K ^ >OOX 60u0X 7000R 8000X 9000X &OCOOX
M
Low CCT generally corresponds to a relatively lower proportion of bine
wavelengths in the visible spectrum. As CCT increases, the appearance becomes
a cooler blueish-white color.
Many jurisdictions with dark sky laws, including the State of Hawaii, uses
the correlated color temperature measurement. (See, e.g., Section 201-8.5,
Hawaii Revised Statutes.). The International Dark-Sky Association estimates
that 29 municipalities in the United States use 3000K LEDs are the standard
choice for outdoor street lights and that requirement can be expanded to apply
to some other outdoor lighting. Our proposed revisions to the bill adopt CCT
measurements because that measurement is available on lightbulb packaging
and would therefore it would be easier for businesses and residents to comply.
The energy use information provided with light blubs indicates the light
appearance, in Kelvins, making compliance with the law much easier than using
the proposed blue light content measurement.
Lighting Facts/Datos de
lluminacion Per Butb/Por Bombilla
1600 lumens/lumenesBrightness/Brilio
$1.81Estimated Yearly Energy Cost/
Costo Estimado Anual de Energfa
Based on 3 hrs/day, lickWh. Cost depends
on rates and use7Basado en 3 hrs/di'a,
11 ckWh. Costo depende de la tarifa y el uso.
Life/Duraclon
Based on 3 hrs/day/Basado en 3 hrs/dia
9.1 years/anos
Light Apperance/Apariencia de lluminacion
Cool/FriaWarm/Calida
L -A'
5000K
Energy Used/Uso de Energfa 15watts/vatios
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
Page I 5
The ordinance has safety implications that should be weighed against
its benefits.
5.
According to the U.S. Department of Energy, light with short wavelengths
are a fundamental component of the visible spectrum and have safety benefits.
“White light sources containing short-wavelength light generally render
nighttime colors more similarly to daylight, aiding in identification (e.g., of
vehicles, clothing, people) and improving contrast between an object {e.g., road
debris) and its surroundings. Short wavelengths are also acknowledged as
providing enhanced peripheral vision at the low levels of illuminance typically
associated with street lighting. Researchers have found improvements in
detection threshold and reaction times in simulated outdoor viewing tasks under
light sources with broader spectra and better color rendering properties; these
improvements occurred when target light levels were in the mesopic vision range
(i.e., at typical street lighting levels).”
It stands to reason that improved visual performance can bring associated
safety benefits. Nevertheless, there may be some areas where the benefits of
omitting the short wavelengths outweigh the disadvantages. For example, in
areas harboring certain endangered species that have been shown to be
particularly affected by short wavelengths, regulations on blue light may be net
beneficial.
The Committee should consider requesting an analysis of the safety
benefits of full-spectrum LED lights to determine what exceptions should be
added or included in the Bill.
6. Exceptions to the ordinance should not be eliminated.
The proposed ordinance eliminates a number of essential exceptions
already contained in the law. We recommend keeping most or all of those
exceptions, especially those detailed below.
The Bill removes the following exemption: “Lighting on federal and State
properties and on areas under the jurisdiction of the federal and State
government, including, but not limited to Hawaiian home lands, State
conservation districts, airports, and harbors.” At minimum, the Bill should
retain an exemption for airports because regulation of anything related to air
safety is preempted by federal law. 8A Am Jur 2d, Aviation § 25 (collecting cases
and stating that the federal regulation of airspace management and air safely is
so pervasive that preemption is inferred).
The Bill also removes an exemption for temporary lighting used for public
safety, road construction or emergency repair. Removing this exemption could
have significant safety consequences and may prevent nighttime road
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
Page I 6
construction or the ability to respond to emergencies. As explained above, light
containing short wavelengths provides greater visibility at night and may be
necessary on a temporary basis.
We recommend that the Committee consult with the police department,
emergency management, and other County departments that may have to
respond to emergencies at night before removing this common exemption to
outdoor lighting ordinances.
7. The height restrictions are too vague to be enforceable.
Supreme Court precedent recognizes two independent grounds upon
which an ordinance’s language can be so vague as to deny due process of law.
First, a law violates due process “if it fails to provide people of ordinary
intelligence a reasonable opportunity to understand what conduct it prohibits.”
Hill V. Colorado, 530 U.S. 703, 732 (2000). Individuals should receive fair notice
of what behavior is prohibited. Smith v. Goguen, 415 U.S. 566, 572 (1974) (“The
doctrine incorporates notions of fair notice or warning.”). Second, a law is
unconstitutionally vague “if it authorizes or even encourages arbitrary and
discriminatory enforcement.” Hill, 530 U.S. at 732, 120 S.Ct. 2480. Statutes
must “provide explicit standards for those who apply” them to avoid “resolution
on an ad hoc and subjective basis, with the attendant dangers of arbitrary and
discriminatory application.” Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U.S. 104, 108-09
(1972).
The height restrictions contained in Section 20.35.060(E)(3) of the Bill may
be unconstitutionally vague for two reasons. First, it does not provide adequate
notice. The ordinance requires that light fixtures be mounted “as low as possible
with existing lighting and safety standards to limit light trespass and reflection
of ground surfaces” but does not reference any specific lighting or safety
standards. It is not clear what lighting standards or safety standards should
apply and therefore the ordinance does not convey  asufficiently definite warning
as to the proscribed conduct when measured by common understandings and
practices. Consequently, the Bill not only fails to give specific notice of how an
applicant should design light fixtures so that the proposed fixture complies with
that restriction, but it also fails to provide an objective standard that the Public
Works Department can apply in determining the fixture’s compliance once a plan
has been submitted and thereafter when an approved project has been built.
Second, the Bill fails to provide explicit standards for those who apply it
which could lead to arbitrary enforcement. Since the Bill does not reference any
objective safety or lighting standards, it does not provide the Public Works
Department with sufficient guidance.
CARE Committee
May 24, 2022
Page 17
We recommend that the Bill be amended to allow the Director of the Public
Works Department to develop administrative rules that sets height restrictions
on free-standing luminare and that such rules balance safety concerns and
lighting requirements with the goal of reducing light trespass. Those
administrative rules, in turn, would provide specific height restrictions providing
clear standards to those who need to determine compliance with the law and
those enforcing the law.
* * *
For the reasons detailed above, we are unable to sign the Bill in its current
form. We are working on alternative legislation that achieves the drafter’s aims
of reducing blue light content in outdoor lights while resolving these legal
concerns.
Count^^lerk
Leonard Nakoa <junyanakoa@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:14 AM
County Clerk; Tamara A. Paltin; Mike J. Molina; Alice L Lee; Kelly King; Shane M. Sinenci;
Yukilei Sugimura; Tasha A. Kama; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson
Fwd: FW; Re: SMA permit
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
— Forwarded message
From: N Cabanilla <cabanillacon5tructionllc@email.com>
Date: Tue, Jun 21, 2022, 7:19 AM
Subject: Fwd: FW: Re: SMA permit
To: <iunvanakoa@email.com> Oc0"nC “n mZ A
ohr N>
— Forwarded message
From: fralOO <fral00@aol.com>
Date: Mon, Jun 20, 2022, 4:50 PM
Subject: FW; Re: SMA permit
To: Kaimi Cabanilla <cabanillaconstructionllc(5)gmail.com>
●< m©o 3 <
m~4
;»3:
t: m
mo00
See below string. This is ridiculous. How can anything get done with this shit.
—  Original message
From: fralOO <fral00(a)aol.com>
Date: 6/20/22 4:47 PM (GMT-10:00)
To: Shirley Christiansen ~ Permit Services <shirlev(SDermitserviceshawaii.cQm>
Subject; Re: SMA permit
This sma is an exemption. Maybe McLean can get this out the door. His estimate is a full month later than McLean's
email I sent you earlier today.
 Original message
From: Shirley Christiansen ~ Permit Services <shirlev@Dermitserviceshawaii.com>
Date: 6/20/22 4:14 PM (GMT-10:00)
To: Fred Allen <fral00@aol.com>
Subject: Re; SMA permit
Fred,
1 was typing response to you when I received reply from SMA as to the timeline.
Hi Shirley, 1 expect I will be able to complete my review and draft documents by the end of the week.
After the staff planner (me) completes the review process, the application is sent to our clerical staff for finalization and
then to our division chief for signature, and then back to clerical for mail out. Typically, it takes a couple weeks after a staff
planner completes their review before the Applicant receives their final approval, especially recently with MAPPS issues still
being worked out. So, a reasonable estimate on getting the final approval may be the week of July 11.
1
I do know this process of the drafting, letter signing and then provided to the client by mail and me by email. I
will let you know when I get the email confirmation of approval and permit being given to the person who will
start drafting the letter, t can try to move it along but as 1 also know the number of permits being processed
and still working on the new permitting system that things are just taking longer in every department.
Will let you know as soon as I get the email of approval.
Shirley
Shirley Christiansen
Permit Services & Consulting
PO Box 880962, Pukalani, Hi 96788-0962
(808) 281-1553
shirlev@pejimitserviceshawali.com
—m—^From>fFt;ed A^n <fralOO(S)aol.com>
Sent: Monday, June 20,-2022 3:42 PM
To: Shirley C^istianseh<^~-Permit Services <shirlev@permitserviceshawaii.com>
Cc: cajpanilla^nstruGtionllc@gmail.com <cabanillaconstructionllc@gmail.com>
Subje^t^,Fwdj_SMA permit
«D
Shirley,
just a reminder of the email (below) from Michele McLean dated 6/9. The Monday she's referring to for SMA approval from
Wes was 6/13, one week ago today. I think its reasonable to bug whoever to get this done tomorrow. Call McLean if
necessary. Let me know tomorrow morning what to expect.
Thanks, Fred
 Forwarded message
From: Michele McLean <Michele.McLean@co.maui.hi.us>
Date: Thu, Jun 9, 2022, 9:05 AM
Subject: Re; SMA permit
To: <iunvanakoa@amail.com>
The architect called me yesterday for final confirmation of what we’ve been saying all along, and we should have gotten
revised plans yesterday or today. Renee should be ready to sign-off and I'll ask Wes to issue the SMA exemption first
thing Monday when he returns.
On Tue, Jun 7, 2022, 11:22 AM Michele McLean < Michele.McLean@co.maui.hi.us> wrote;
Aloha Junya,
This has taken a lot of research on ZAED's part, relating to the garage.
The code provisions with the definitions of garage (private garage, storage garage, etc.) have been amended several
times so that this garage must be limited to 1000 sf, even if the neighboring property's garage is 1200 sf.
He can keep the footprint the same and add a wall to separate 200 sf for storage if he would like, but the garage space is
limited to 1000 sf and has to be separate from the storage area.
2
Also, the sink in the garage needs to be labeled ("utility sink" would be fine).
If those changes can be made to the plans, then we will be ready to sign-off on the BP and issue the SMA exemption.
Mahalo,
Michele.
Leonard Nakoa <junyanakoa@Qmail.com> 6/7/2022 8;16AM >>>> > >
3
RECEIVED
WZ JUH 20 PH > *15
June 20, 2023
Council Chair, Alice Lee
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
200 South High St, Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
OFFiee OF THE
GOUN’FY CLERK
RE: Hawai'l Hotel Alliance Opposition to Bill 21, CDl (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the County Council,
Mahalo for this opportunity to provide testimony in advance of the County Council's June 21, 2022
meeting. Maui's lodging industry is deeply committed to its stewardship role for the local environment-
including the protection of Hawai'I's native seabird species.-but if enacted. Bill 21, CDl's outdoor
lighting fixture requirements would impose impractical, ambiguous and unsafe requirements on
businesses (and residents) throughout the county which run counter to the guidance of state and
federal agency experts in this space.
Stare and federal agencies with expertise on what constitutes appropriate measures to protect
endangered seabirds have developed corresponding light minimization guidelines. Importantly, these
guidelines were included in Apendix E to the Kauai Seabird Habitat Conservation Plan- a Plan prepared in
2020 by the US Fish and Wildlife Service and the  eHawai'l Department of Land and Natural Resources
(DLNR). This appendix includes requirements relating to the placement, angling, and shielding of lights,
as well as other key Lightning mitigation measures. At the time the KSHCP was prepared, several groups
asked the agencies to also impose light spectrum requirements similar to those found in Bill 21, CD 1. It
is important to underscore the experts at these agencies declined to do so.
The well being of our lodging guests and employees alike is the utmost importance, and something that
should not be unduly compromised in anything adopted by the county via bill 21. There are human
safety benefits of shorter wavelengths, including that that they create greater contrast and enhance
peripheral vision-yet Bill 21 does not properly account for this critical dynamic. Conversely, recognition
of human safety needs is present within state and federal agency light minimization guidelines for
protecting endangered seabirds.
Exasperating these concerns is the fact that Bill 21would newly apply its provisions to "temporary Hotel
and condominium Beach security lighting" and "safety and security lighting for water features ", which
were previously exempt in broad scope. This could increase safety hazards for hotel guests and make it
impossible for security staff to implement safety or security lighting at their hotels and resorts, even
temporarily to resolve pressing safety matters.
Bill 21 is simply not a sensible approach to the important protection of Hawai'I's native seabirds,
especially given that alternative options are available. One logical option would be for Maui to adopt
requirements similar to those included in KSHCP's Appendix E, which reflects mindful policies
established by subject-matter experts from USFWSand DLNR. Another option would be to impose a
correlated color temperature requirement, as the State imposed on its own agencies (this measurement
is typically included on LED light bulb labels). Any new requirements should also preserve existing
exemptions and allow enough lead time for compliance.
c
FdrVthe rrfafiy rd^sBnSa'rfelated in our testimony, the Hawai'l Hotel Alliance urges the county council to
reject Bill 21 and instead pursue an alternative conservation pathway.
Mah^lo^N|j^
Lahela Aiwohi, VP
Hawai'l Hotel Alliance
% '
Count^£!erk RECEIVCd
JUN 21 JIM & 07Lahela Aiwohi <laheiaaiwohi@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:02 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Testimony attachment in Opposition of Bill 21, CD1, No. 22-147 OFFtQC ©F THP
KSHCP Appendix E.PDF ©©UNTY GL^RK
Aloha,
I submitted testimony in opposing of Bill 21, CDl, No. 22-147.1 failed to attach Appendix E to my original email sent
yesterday. Please accept the attached Appendix E as part of the testimony for "Lahela Aiwohi, Hawai'i Hotel Alliance".
Mahalo
Lahela Aiwohi, VP
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
808.463.4200
Sent from my iPhone
1
APPENDIX E: Guidelines for Adjusting Lighting at Facilities
1. Guidelines for Adjusting Lighting at Facilities
This appendix provides detailed guidelines to inform minimization measures that can be
customized to address an array of possible lighting issues at Participant facilities. A lighting
minimization plan to achieve the maximum extent practicable will be included in each
Participant PIP.
These guidelines represent best available science at the time of KSHCP permit issuance. Over
the life the plan, likely new information and new technologies will be available, and this
appendix may be updated accordingly.
Not all lighting guidelines are appropriate for all types of facilities. Some represent long term,
infrastructure solutions, and others may be implemented on a seasonal basis.
1.1. Deactivate Non-Essential Lights
Prioritization of seabird and honu light attraction minimization measures involves evaluating
light needs to determine if non-essential lights can be deactivated during the seabird fallout
season (September 15 to December 15) and turtle nesting season (May 15-December 15).
Deactivating the lights avoids the potential for light attraction that those lights could otherwise
cause. Turning off a subset of lights, both unshielded and shielded, during the fallout season
(September 15 to December 15) can assist with minimizing the risk of seabird light attraction, if
those lights are not necessary. In their PIPs, Applicants must provide rationale for any facility
lights that cannot be deactivated during seabird fallout season, and detail what other
minimization practices will be implemented on lights that will remain illuminated. The
regulatory agencies will review the evaluation and justification as provided in applicant PIPs.
Similarly, turning out lights that shine directly on beaches during the turtle nesting season (May
15-December 15) can prevent hatchling disorientation. Avoid use of the following lamp styles
on beachside or shore perpendicular to sides of a structure: private balcony lights, up lights;
decorative lighting, not necessary for human safety or security; pond lights; and beach lighting.
Timers or other similar devices should be used to ensure the selected lights remain off during
the turtle nesting season. This measure may require the installation of independent light
switches. Conversely, to prevent accidental activation, light fixtures can be removed for lights
that will no longer be needed at a facility.
1.2. Install Full Cut-off Light Fixtures
A full cut-off fixture refers to a light fixture which that does not shine light above a 90 degree
horizontal plane. For lights necessary to be activated, full cut-off fixtures provide an effective
measure to achieve light minimization because they prevent light from shining directly upward.
These types of lights house the light bulb up within the fixture so that no bulb protrudes below
(Figure 1). Such fixtures must be mounted at appropriate angle so they point directly down to
the ground. Many light manufacturers provide light fixture information along with the light
specifications to indicate if a fixture is a full cut-off design. The International Dark Sky
Association (www.darksky.org) is a good source for information on full cut-off lights and
provides additional references to light engineering resources and light manufactures.
Figure 1: Examples of full cut-off light fixtures. Source: www.darkskv.org.
Along shorelines, exterior fixtures on the seaward (makai) and the shore perpendicular sides of
the building (and on the landward side of the building if they are visible from the beach) should
be down-lit fixtures, fully shielded and full cut-off, louvered, or recessed fixtures that do not
have reflective inner surfaces. These fixtures should use low wattage bulbs (e.g.,< SOw). All
exterior fixtures on the landward (mauka) side of the building should be directed downward
only (Witherington & Martin 2003).
1.3. Shielding Light Fixtures
This minimization measure aims to achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off light
fixture by installing a shield, visor, hood or similar on an existing light fixture to prevent light
from shining upward and reducing trespass. In addition to the shielding, to achieve the
functional equivalent of a full cut-off fixture,  alight fixture should be adjusted so that it points
directly down perpendicular to the ground to create a level, horizontal plane between the
fixture and the ground, and have the bulb housed within the light fixture (Figures 2 & 3). Reed
et al. (1985) suggest that in areas where other light sources are rare, the shielding of principal
lights would likely have a larger effect in decreasing seabird light attraction.
\
Figure 2: Installation of an appropriately sized floodlight shield. Source; www.darkskv.org.
Shielded Floodlight
Standard Floodlight
r: ^Waste Light, Light Trespass
o.o-C
O)
01
Task Area
Figure 3: Before and after effects of shielding and light management designed to minimize light
attraction risk to seabirds and to decrease light pollution. Source: www.darkskv.org.
1.4. Angle Lights Downward
Angling and repositioning lights presents a potential alternative to shielding or replacing light
fixtures and may be sufficient to make lights fully cut-off and eliminate light shining horizontally
and vertically {Figure 4). To achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off fixture, a light
fixture should be adjusted so that it points directly down perpendicular to the ground to create
a level, horizontal plane between the fixture and the ground, and have the bulb housed within
the light fixture. Tree strap downlights may be used to minimize seabird light attraction unless
turtles may be present on the adjacent beach.
4
Figure 1-: (a) Wall mount cylinder down-light, (b) bollards with downward-directed louvers, and (c)
sign lights angled downward. From
http://mvfwc.com/media/418417/SeaTurtle UghtingGuidelines.pdf (FWC 2011).
1.5. Place Lights Under Eaves
Light fixtures placed under building eaves can achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off
fixture. The architectural eave acts as shield to prevent light from shining directly upward.
1.6. Shift Lighting According to the Moon Phase
This minimization measure addresses lighting for which the need, or purpose, for the lighting
can be shifted in timing each year to coincide with the moon phase. Because a reduction in
light attraction has been correlated with the full phase of the moon (Reed et al. 1985; Telfer et
al. 1987) lights for essential functions, and for which that function can be shifted in timing,
should coincide with the full phase of the moon and avoid the dark phase of the moon. It is
important to note that a full moon that is obscured by heavy cloud cover could simulate the
dark phase of the moon. By not activating those lights during the dark phase of the moon the
effect of those lights is reduced. Examples of activities that could be minimized with this
measure include scheduling of night time events, such as festivals or sporting events.
1.7. Install Motion Sensors for Motion-activated Lighting
Motion sensors switch lights on only when triggered, thereby limiting the time that the light
stays on and reducing its potential for seabird light attraction. If a sensor light is required for
security purposes, the light equipped with the sensor should be at low light levels. For
example. Light Emitting Diode (LED) streetlights and parking lot lights can be activated when
needed and dim when no activity is detected nearby. However for those fixtures, full cut-off
designs or the functional equivalents are recommended because of the possibility of light
attraction occurring when the motion-sensor light is activated or in the event that the motion
sensor equipment malfunctions and the light remains on.
Where motion sensors are impractical (eg at sporting events), stadium lights should be turned
off as soon as the public leaves the stadium.
1.8. Decrease Lighting Levels
This measure addresses lowering light intensity levels (e.g., measured in lumens) while still
meeting the need to safely complete tasks and serve the purpose of the light. Guidance on
standards for the appropriate lighting level for  aparticular light function should be followed as
provided by the appropriate agency or professional and technical organization. For example
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (lESNA) provides recommendations for
light levels for several applications including parking lots, walkways, and roads. In addition
individual entities may have standards and best practices for lighting needs.
For many applications where lighting is needed, brighter lighting may not always provide the
best lighting for the needed function. It is often the case where reduced lighting levels can
provide for the needed function of the lighting. For example, for security purposes overly
bright lights tend to create blind spots, or very dark shadows, outside the lit area that preclude
effective visibility. Well placed, but reduced lighting can provide for more effective security.
Therefore, when Participants seek to enhance onsite visibility for security, while reducing risk to
seabirds, the appropriate reduction of light levels (along with shielding and re-angling lights)
forms a starting point to accomplish both purposes.
1.9. Decrease Visibility of Interior Lights
Facilities with large and/or numerous windows, tall building profiles, or large glass facades may
also pose a risk of light attraction to Covered Seabirds on Kaua'i. The following measures are
based, in part, on efforts in cities in Canada and the mainland USA to decrease harmful effects
of buildings on birds and apply to seabirds in that they can decrease the amount of light
escaping from within buildings (City of Toronto 2007; Evans Ogden 2002):
● Install screens or shades over large windows that are lowered nightly during the fallout
season;
● Modify buildings and decrease or eliminate light glow from within a facility;
● Create glass opacity to prevent the escape of internal light. Tinted glass or film with a
visible light transmittance value of 45 percent or less should be applied to all windows
and doors within line of sight of the beach;
● Install physical screens outside a building;
● Install landscaping in front of large windows;
● Close all window blinds after daylight hours until sunrise;
● Stagger the operation of lights in the evening or morning hours so that not all lights are
turned on at once; and
● Maximize the number of offices or indoor rooms that turn off all lights after sunset;
● Place reminder notices on switches to turn out lights or draw curtains/blinds in
oceanfront rooms. This should include coastal areas that are on the perpendicular sides
of the structure;
a. Turn off room and lanai lighting that are not needed;
b. Relocate moveable lamps away from windows that are visible from the beach;
and
c. Close opaque curtains or blinds after dark to block inside light from shining
outside.
1.10. Use Light-less Technologies
Where conditions and facility needs permit, technologies that do not use light, such as closed-
circuit television (CCT) with infrared illuminators, may be effectively employed to "see" at night
thus enabling some of the lights to be turned off. For example, any fenced areas or the dark
sides of facilities can be monitored with CCT so that lights do not need to be used or installed.
1.11. Plant Vegetation Around Lights to Reduce Light Visibility
Trees and shrubs can be planted so that they over-arch lights or shield side visibility of lights
along the coast or along a ridge, for example. Whether the lights are mounted on 20-foot poles,
walkways, or within landscaped areas, having adjacent or overarching vegetation would further
reduce the risk of seabird light attraction that any residual light scatter may pose. Long-term
planning and maintenance of screening vegetation is encouraged, where appropriate to the
uses and needs of the affected lights.
1.12. Lower Height of Lights
Light that is low in height has potential to reduce the effect of light attraction because lower
lights may be less visible to passing seabirds. Installing ground-level lighting, such as along
walkways, and reducing pole height can decrease light waste and trespass.
1.13. Use Longer Light Wavelengths
In coastal areas, use of acceptable lights such as: LPS 18w, 35w, red, orange or amber LEDs
(true red, orange or amber diodes, but not filters), true red neon, and other lighting sources
that produce light wavelengths of 560 nm or longer (Witherington et al. 2014). Long
wavelength lights, e.g., those that produce light that measures greater than 560 nanometers on
a spectroscope, are required for all construction visible from and adjacent to sea turtle nesting
beaches. Turtles are most sensitive to short wavelengths of light, probably because they live in
a marine environment that filters out long wavelengths. Green turtles are least attracted to
longer wavelength light in the yellow-orange to red end of the spectrum (630 to 700 nm)
(Witherington and Martin 2000). In the absence of other light sources, however, turtles may
still be attracted to long wavelength light.
Filters designed to exclude transmission of short wavelengths (<570nm) can be fitted to high
pressure sodium (HPS) vapor lights. Such filters have been found to be effective at avoiding
disruption of nesting females (Salmon, 2006) but even filtered HPS light has been found to
attract hatchlings, although not as strongly as unfiltered HPS lights (Sella et al, 2006). Filtering
alone is thus not sufficient to avoid attraction and disruption of hatchling orientation. Bright
white light fixtures, such as metal halide, halogen, fluorescent, mercury vapor and incandescent
lamps, are not approved for beachside or shore perpendicular sides of a structure. Limited use
of shorter wavelength lights may be approved in areas where direct and indirect light or glow
could not possibly be visible from the beach due to installation of opaque "light fencing" (see
below).
RECEIVEDCount^£leH<
Stephanie Austin <stephandjim@aol.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 4:18 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159, ( and 22-158 with reservations)
JUN20From:
Sent:
To:
OPFiee ©FTHE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
(You don't often get email from stephandjim@aol.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili.
I would supportTamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center, or perhaps a
community center instead, depending upon the outcome of the investigation.
I cannot know the facts - there are many allegations which need to be closely investigated, officially. The result of these
permitting decisions has clearly outraged the community: we need to trust our government - trust has been shaken in
this instance, and the facts must be determined.
If indeed it has been illegally characterized, perhaps a Hawaiian Cultural Center would be an appropriate use: but first
things first.
Stephanie Austin
1
Maureen Bacon <mauimo808@gmail.com>
Friday, June 17, 2022 3:20 PM
County Clerk
Lighting bill
RECEIVEDFrom:
Sent:
To:
im JUN 17 PH J 2<lSubject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNtY CLERKYou don't often get email from mauimo808@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
The lighting that certain neighbors in the neighborhood have are a real issue. Bright flood lights kept on all night to
apparently keep the pigs away shine right into our windows & many of our neighbors windows, including bedroom
windows. And they don't seen to be will to do much about it. I would like to see this bill passed.
Maureen Bacon
1
R5CEIV&D
Chris Breckels <chrisbreckels@yahoo.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 6:26 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
From:
Sent: 2R2 JUN2I AH 7: «I0
To:
Subject: OFFICE Of TH5
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from chrisbreckels@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King’s Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead. Mahalo, Christopher
Breckels-Lahaina.
1
received
ZK? JUN 20 PH 2> 33
Count^£leH<
David Casper <dcasper66@yahoo.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:14 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
From:
Sent:
^ T!©E OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
.  \ r*'
To:
Subject:
-  You don't often get email from dcasper66@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Tear down Mr. Brown's monster building.
Mahalo, David Casper
Mahaniahina, HI.
1
RECEIVED
im JUN t7 «nit3i
rebecca collins <beckyinojai@sbcglobal.net>
Friday, June 17, 2022 11:23 AM
County Clerk
Brown development napili
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK[You don't often get email from beckyinojai@sbcglobal.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
This is clearly not a project based on height usage etc that was legitimately approved not the least of which the black
plastic surrounding it creates blind spots., too close to road so cannot see cars coming .. the whole thing . should be
shut down and removed., eyesore and is not a single family or long term rental so brown lied about that too. We
have been coming to napili for years.. I was born in Hawaii as was my father..don't allow this as it destroys the
Hawaii vibe big time and is in violation of the codes re height and an employee with county city was fired for calling
this out so somebody gettin paid off to give this permit.. SHUT IT DOWN. NOW.
Sent from my iPhone
1
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor RECEIVED
mi JUN 20 PH 5 45
MOANA M. LUTEY
Corporation Counsel
RICHELLE M. THOMSON
First Deputy
DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET, 3*"° FLOOR
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
EMAIL: CORPCOUN@MAUlCOUNTY.GOV
TELEPHONE: (808)270-7740
COUNTY CLERKLYDIA A. TODA
Risk Management Officer
June 17,2022
Memorandum
Alice Lee, Chair, Maui County CouncilTO:
Moana Lutey, Corporation Counsel;
Richelle Thomson, First Deputy Corporation Counsel;
Keola R. Whittaker, Deputy Corporation Counsel
FROM:
Outdoor Lighting Bill (CR22-47, Bill 21, CDl), scheduled for
first reading on June 21, 2022
SUBJECT:
This memorandum summarizes a few of the concerns our department has
with Bill 21, CDl (2022) which proposes major revisions to the County’s Outdoor
Lighting Ordinance (MCC 20.35). As presently drafted, our department is unable
to approve as to form and legality. However, attached to this memo as Exhibit 1
is a proposed draft that updates the outdoor lighting ordinance, achieves
environmental goals, and is enforceable.
THE BILL REMOVES NECESSARY SAFETY EXEMPTIONS.I.
The bill removes the following exclusions, which have significant impacts
on the safety of County residents:
Temporary lighting used for public safety, road construction or
emergency repair, field harvesting, and road crossing. The current law
excludes temporary emergency lighting from regulation. The bill removes that
exclusion, so all emergency lights would have to comply with the strict shielding
and blue light regulations.
Emergency lights should be excluded from the ordinance. The exclusion is
necessary because police department and other county agencies need to be able
to use flood lights or other bright white lighting used to ikuminate areas in an
emergency, such as a traffic accident, DUI checkpoint, necessary road
construction, or other emergencies. Removing the exc ision would severely
impact the County’s abilities to respond to nighttime emc. gencies. It could also
lead to violations of worker safety laws for workers doing nighttime emergency
repairs.
1.
Chair Alice L. Lee
fOi^tdoor Lighting Bill 21, CDl (2022)
'June 17,^"2022
.1 2.;a
Safety and security lighting for pools and water features. The
current :law excludes safety and security lighting for pools and water features.
Theibill rernoves those exemptions, which could lead to safety hazards.
Proper illumination near water features, such as waterfalls, pools, or
ponds, is necessary to avoid accidents.
Lighting on federal properties, such as airports and harbors.
Lighting at airports and harbors is traditionally excluded from outdoor lighting
ordinances, and are excluded under the current law, because of safety issues
and federal or state preemption. The bill removes this exclusion as well.
It is not clear whether the County could regulate lighting at airports,
harbors, or other areas under state or federal control. Even if these areas could
be regulated by the County, there are significant reasons for allowing non-
conforming lights at airports and harbors. This exclusion should not be removed
from the existing ordinance.
2.
3.
II. MANY COMMONLY USED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
LIGHTING FIXTURES WOULD BE BANNED.
The bill applies to all uses of outdoor lights. This differs from the outdoor
lighting ordinance in the County of Hawaii, which does not apply to residential
properties. The bill’s broad application would lead to significant changes in
regulation of outdoor lights. For example, the bill would make the following
commonly used lighting illegal:
String lights used on patios or to illuminate outdoor areas. All
string lights would be banned because they do not meet the shielding
requirements. String lights are a common way to illuminate backyard spaces.
They are also used in public areas. The string lights in on Market Street in
Wailuku, for instance, would be non-conforming. Many restaurants with
outdoor seating currently use string lights or other lights that would be banned
by this bill.
1.
Flood lights or other security lights on a timer. The bill removes
the exemption for lights on an automatic timer. It is common for residences and
businesses to use flood lights as security lighting, and many of those are on an
automatic timer.
2.
Footpath lighting. Low-lumen footpath lights are often excluded
from outdoor lighting ordinances. This ordinance does not exclude them and
many would violate the ordinance’s shielding and blue light content
requirements.
3.
Lighting used by campers. Lights commonly used by campers,
such as LED lanterns, would be banned by this bill.
4.
Chair Alice L. Lee
Outdoor Lighting Bill 21, GDI (2022)
June 17,2022
Page I 3
In addition, the following commonly used lights at restaurants,
businesses, and outdoor venues would be banned:
Theater lighting for luau, weddings, or outdoor performances
would be banned. Theater lights would not comply with the shielding or blue
light content requirements. These lights are used by many businesses and
would be banned immediately unless currently in use, in which case they would
be banned in three years.
There are a number of common events on Maui that would be severely
restricted or would not be able to operate once the ordinance becomes law
including:
1.
● Outdoor events at the annual Makawao Rodeo;
● Bon dances that use lanterns on string lights;
● Kahului Sunday Night Market;
● Food truck areas, such as the venues near Costco;
● Outdoor concerts or movies at the Maui Arts 86 Cultural Center;
● The annual Maui Fair;
● Outdoor luau, such as Old Lahaina Luau;
● Outdoor filming at night.
All of these events use string lights, flood lights, theater lighting, or other non-
conforming lights and are not excluded from the bill.
Uplighting for landscapes, signage, or addresses. Businesses and
some residential properties use relatively low-lumen uplighting to highlight their
business name or address. Those lights would be banned.
Businesses also commonly use some form of uplighting for landscapes or
architecture. The County, for example, uses uplighting for special events at the
County building. Such lights would be banned by the proposed ordinance
because they likely do not comply with the blue light restrictions and would not
comply with shielding requirements.
Sports facilities owned by nonprofits or private entities. While
the bill provides an exclusion for sports facilities “on Hawaii department of
education properties, private school properties, and county parks...,” it does not
exclude sports facilities generally. This would have a significant impact on
nonprofit organizations such as the YMCA, that own athletic facilities used at
night. It also does not exclude private tennis courts, golf courses, driving ranges,
basketball courts, or swimming areas that use non-conforming lights.
2.
3.
Chair Alice L. Lee
Outdoor Lighting Bill 21, CDl (2022)
June 17,2022
Page I 4
III. ENFORCEMENT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE THE COUNTY
CANNOT MEASURE BLUE LIGHT CONTENT ON ITS OWN.
The federal government regulates the information lighting manufacturers
are required to give consumers. That information does not include any data that
would allow the Public Works department to determine if a light fixture is
compliant with the proposed blue light percentage requirement.
Public Works does not have the ability to test lights on their own to
determine whether they comply with the blue light restrictions in the bill.
Instead, Public Works would depend on the lighting manufacturers to tell the
County whether a light fixture is compliant or not. No major light manufacturer
provides that information to the County of Hawai'i and, as a result, only a
handful of lights from a single vendor has been approved as compliant. The
problem would be exacerbated in Maui County since the bill has a much broader
application than the County of Hawaii’s ordinance.
Unless lighting manufacturers confirm to the County that their lights are
compliant or not, all lights would be presumably non-compliant. Note that
government agency regulates blue light percentage disclosures, so lighting
manufacturers could provide bad data or claim to be compliant and the County
could not determine whether such statements are true.
IV. THIS BILL COULD RESULT IN MORE HARM TO SEABIRDS.
Lighting expert Dr. John W. Curran concluded, using Mr. Penniman’s own
research, that seabirds are more sensitive to uellow light content than blue light
content. As indicated in the report attached to this memo as Exhibit 2, Dr.
Curran notes that “I conclude that the shearwater eye response is more sensitive
in the yellow region than the blue...[if| I wanted to minimize the optical response
of the Newell’s Shearwater, I would want to remove light in the longer
wavelengths not the shorter ones, since that is where the greater response
occurs.”
In short, there is no scientific consensus among federal or state
environmental agencies that seabirds are more attracted to the blue light
spectrum. Neither Hawaii state authorities nor federal environmental agencies
have concluded that seabirds are more attracted to blue light than yellow light.
If it is later determined that yellow light does more harm to the seabirds, the
County could face significant liability from environmental lawsuits for passing
an ordinance that limits blue light in favor of yellow light.
Chair Alice L. Lee
Outdoor Lighting Bill 21, GDI (2022)
June 17, 2022
Page 1 5
THIS BILL REQUIRES THE USE OF FILTERS, WHICH ARE NOT
AVAILABLE TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
V.
This bill requires that new outdoor lights be (1) LED lights; and (2) use a
filter to remove blue light. These filters are not available on the open market and
there are no industry standards for filters used to remove blue light from LED
fixtures. This makes enforcement impossible.
It also does not make sense from an energy saving perspective to use light
sources (white LEDs) that produce a broad spectrum and then waste the energy
in the blue portion of that spectrum. The bill should be amended to remove the
filter requirement because a yellow or a yellow-and-red LED could comply with
the blue light percentage without the requirement of a filter that is not available.
A SMALL NUMBER OF VENDORS WOULD FINANCIALLY BENEFIT
FROM THIS BILL,
VI,
We understand that a single vendor - Robert Adams  -who promoted this
bill is the only vendor that manufactures filters for certain LED light fixtures that
purportedly filters out blue light. If the current filter requirement were to become
law, he would benefit significantly.
As indicated above, we understand that only one vendor’s lights were
approved by Hawaii County under its lighting ordinance. If that vendor
continues to be the only vendor offering blue light data, it too would see a
significant benefit.
While these vendors would benefit financially, they would have an effective
monopoly and could raise prices, leading to a significant financial burden for the
County.
THERE ARE DRAFTING ERRORS IN THE BILL THAT INCREASE
LITIGATION RISKS.
VII.
As indicated in our department’s memorandum dated May 24, 2022, there
are a significant number of drafting errors which could make the ordinance
difficult to enforce and increase the County’s legal liability. For example, it
requires that “All outdoor lighting fixtures...be filtered light emitting diode” or
LED lights with a filter. Another section of the bill appears to allow for the use
of non-LED lights. This makes enforcement difficult because it is unclear
whether non-LED lights are permitted by the bill.
Chair Alice L. Lee
Outdoor Lighting Bill 21, CDl (2022)
June 17, 2022
Page I 6
VIII. PUBLIC WORKS WOULD BE UNABLE TO APPROVE MANY ELECTRICAL
PERMITS
Section 20.35.080 requires that applications for electrical permits required
for the installation of certain outdoor lighting fixtures must submit information
to the Director of Public Works to show that the proposed installation will comply
with the outdoor lighting ordinance and Section 16.18B. 104-9. Applicants
would be unable to demonstrate compliance with the ordinance since, as
explained above, the blue light percentage of light fixtures is not available to the
general public or to Public Works. As a result, the Department of Public Works
would be unable to approve electrical permits until lighting manufacturers
provide the blue light content of their lights in accordance with the ordinance.
* * *
For these and the reasons discussed in the May 24, 2022 memo, and
during the limited opportunity provided in committee, our department
respectfully requests that the bill be filed, returned to committee for further
review, or that the draft attached as Exhibit 1 be substituted in its entirety.
Exhibit 1
ORDINANCE NO.
21 CDl
(2022)BILL NO.
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI:
SECTION 1. The purpose of this Ordinance is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the public and protect the natural habitat, including that of
Hawaiian seabirds, by minimizing light pollution, glare, and light trespass;
conserving energy and resources while maintaining safety, utility, and security;
and curtailing the degradation of the nighttime visual environment.
SECTION 2. Section 20.35.030, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
“20.35.030 Administration. This chapter [shall be] is
administered and enforced by the department of public works^ [and
environmental management.]”
SECTION 3. Section 20.35.040, Maui County Code, is amended to read as
follows:
“20.35.040 Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, unless
it is plainly evident from the context that a different meaning is
intended, certain words and phrases used in this chapter are
defined as follows:
“Artificial sky glow” means the brightening of the night sky
attributable to man-made light sources.
[“Augmented monochromatic lighting” means a lighting
system designed in conformance with lighting standards adopted by
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, such that at
least ninety per cent of the total lumens emitted are produced by
low pressure sodium lamps, and no more than ten per cent of the
total lumens emitted are produced from lamps that emit light across
a broad portion of the light spectrum.
“Class I lighting’' means outdoor lighting used for outdoor
sales areas, service stations, outdoor eating areas, outdoor assembly
or repair areas, and recreational facilities.
“Class II lighting” means all outdoor lighting used for, but not
limited to, illumination for equipment yards, parking lots, outdoor
security, and other similar applications in which general
illumination of the ground is the primary concern.
“Class III lighting” means any outdoor lighting used for
decorative effects, including but not limited to, waterfall and pond
lighting, landscaping, and walkways.
“Class IV lighting” means all lighting used for the illumination
of roadways.
“Committee” means the Maui County outdoor lighting
standards committee.]
“Director” means the director of public works [and
environmental management] of the County [of Maui] or the director's
duly authorized representative.
“Flood or spot lamps” means any light fixture incorporating a
reflector or refactor to concentrate and direct light output in a
particular direction.
“Fully shielded” means the outdoor lighting fixture is
constructed so that all of the light emitted by the fixture is projected
downward below the horizontal plane of the lowest point of the
fixture.
[“High pressure sodium” or “HPS” means a bulb that is filled
with high pressure sodium vapor and emits light across a broad
portion of the light spectrum.]
“Kelvin” means the measure of the color temperature of a light
Warmer temperatures are a lower number, and cooler
temperatures are a higher number.
“Light source” means the initial source of the light, a bare
source.
bulb.
“Light trespass” means artificial light or illuminance that falls
beyond the property boundaries of the property where the light is
located.
[“Light spectrum' means the band of electromagnetic
radiation (light) that is visible to the human eye.
“Lighting system” means a project's outdoor lighting plan for
class II uses.
“Low pressure sodium” or “LPS” means a bulb that is filled
with low pressure sodium vapor and emits light across a narrow
portion of the light spectrum.]
“Lumen” means the unit of light emission from a light source.
- 2 -
‘^Luminaire” means a complete lighting unit consisting of a
light source and all necessary mechanicaL electrical, and decorative
parts.
“Mercury vapor” means any lamp containing mercury in a
fused quartz tube [which] that emits light across  abroad portion of
the light spectrum.
[“Metal halide' means a lamp containing metal halide
additives in addition to mercury vapor and emits light across a broad
portion of the light spectrum.]
“Outdoor lighting fixture” means any artificial outdoor lighting
device, permanently installed or portable, that is intended to provide
illumination for visibility or decorative effects[.] but does not include
automotive exterior lighting such as headlamps or taillights.
[“Partially shielded” means the outdoor lighting fixture is
constructed so that at least ninety per cent of the light emitted by
the fixture is projected below the horizontal plane of the lowest point
of the fixture.]
“Security lighting” means any outdoor artificial lighting device
that is intended to discourage or prevent crime.
“Searchlight” means a powerful outdoor electric luminaire
with a concentrated beam directed in a specific direction, or
motorized to change direction.
“String lights” means a maximum 2.8-watt system designed
for exterior installation and use featuring individual bulb
receptacles connected by exposed electrical wires that are designed
to hang between two points.
“Temporary outdoor lighting” means specific illumination of
an outside area or object bv any man-made device located outdoors
that produces light by anv means for a period of less than sixty
consecutive days, with at least one-hundred and eighty consecutive
days passing before being used again.”
SECTION 4. Chapter 20.35.060, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
“20.35.060 General Requirements,
lighting fixtures shall comply with the requirements of section
20.35.090.
[A. All new outdoor
All outdoor lighting fixtures that were legally installed
before January 25, 2007 shall comply with section 20.35.090 by
January 1, 2020; except class III lighting fixtures that were legally
installed before January 25, 2007 shall be exempt from section
20.35.090.
B.
Mercury vapor shall not be used for new
outdoor lighting fixtures or for the re placement of existing
C.
- 3 -
outdoor lighting fixtures,
outdoor lighting fixtures shall be removed within ten years of the
enactment of this ordinance.]
Unless otherwise exempted, the following are
All existing mercury vapor
A.
prohibited:
Mercury vapor lights.
Up-lighting.
Unshielded flood or spot lamps.
Architectural or landscape lighting.
Search lighting except by police, fire, and other
emergency response personnel.
Flashing or blinking lights except bv police, fire,
and other emergency response personnel.
All outdoor lighting fixtures, except for neon, must
comply with the following requirements:
All fixtures must be aimed and shielded to so that
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
B.
1.
the direct illumination shall be confined to the property
boundaries of the source and ensure no direct illumination of
the ocean.
The correlated color temperature of all outdoor
lighting shall be 3,000 degrees Kelvin or less. The director may
approve outdoor lighting with a color temperature up to 5,000
degrees Kelvin only when required for public safety or law
enforcement purposes.
Unless otherwise provided, free-standing luminaries
must be mounted at a height no greater than twenty feet measured
from the final grade to the bottom of the luminaire. The director
may approve greater mounting or pole heights under the following
conditions:
2.
C.
The greater mounting height is required for safety
or security reasons or due to unique topography;
Fewer luminaries will be required for the site as a
result of the greater mounting height; or
The greater mounting height will contribute less
artificial sky glow bv reducing the intensity of the lighting
1.
2.
3.
beneath the luminaire.
SECTION 5. Section 20.35.070, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
“20.35.070 Exemptions. The following [shall be] are exempt
from the provisions of this chapter:
All outdoor lighting fixtures producing light
directly by the combustion of fossil fuels, such as kerosene
and gasoline[;L
A.
- 4 -
ILow wattage fixtures used for holiday
decorations onlv:]Low-lumen holiday lights as long as the
lights are used no more than 75 days during a 12-month
period and turned off by midnight.
Temporary outdoor lighting used for public
safety, road construction or emergency repair,
harvesting, and road crossing[;L
Temporary outdoor lighting used as hotel and
condominium beach security lighting[;]^
[Safety and security lighting for water features,
except that water feature lighting such as for waterfalls, jet
sprays, and bubblers shall be subject to the usage restrictions
of section 20.35.090;! Underwater lighting in a swimming pool
or other water feature provided it is not intended to illuminate
features above water.
B.
C.
field
D.
E.
[Replacement of outdoor lighting fixtures legally
installed before the enactment of this ordinance with the same
or like fixtures; provided, that such lighting fixtures shall be
subject to sections 20.35.060.B and 20.35.060.C;] All outdoor
lighting fixtures installed prior to the enactment of the
ordinance establishing section 20.30.060 are exempt.
[Outdoor lighting fixtures on a motion sensor
timed to turn off within a five-minute time limit;] Motion
sensor controlled light source that is set to turn the artificial
light source off five minutes after the last detection of motion.
F.
G.
provided that:
The light output equal to or less than L8001.
lumens.
The color temperature of the light source
does not exceed 5.000 degrees Kelvin.
Lighting shall not be triggered by any
activity outside the property boundary.
The artificial light source is sufficiently
2.
3.
4.
shielded to prevent light trespass on adjacent
properties.
H. Lighting on federal and State properties and on
areas under the jurisdiction of the federal and State
government, including[, but not limited to,] Hawaiian home
lands, State conservation districts, airports, and harbors.
I. Recreational Lighting. Due to their unique
requirements for nighttime visibility and their limited hours of
operation, baseball fields, playing fields, tennis courts, and
sports stadiums may operate with the following conditions
and exceptions:
All fixtures must be fully shielded.1.
- 5 -
The height of outdoor recreational posts
must not exceed seventy feet above the final grade
except that fixtures in existence as of the effective date
of this ordinance are not required to comply with the
height restriction.
2.
Lighting at public recreational facilities or
private schools shall be turned off within one hour of
the completion of the last game, practice, or event.
Lighting at private recreational facilities
must be turned off by 11:00 p.m.
Up-lighting is permitted for special events on a
temporary basis at Countv-owned or managed facilities. All
up-lighting shall be shielded and/or have a beam-angle
control and shall be aimed to limit the directed light to the
illuminated object only. Up-lighting is permitted thirty
minutes before sunset and until 11:00 p.m.
Outdoor lighting intended for an occasional
event, such as a wedding, party, social gathering, or other
event that occurs on an occasional basis, provided it is in
compliance with the following:
3.
4.
J.
K.
Occasional event lighting shall be turned
off by 10:30 p.m. and any remaining lighting must
comply with this chapter.
Occasional events must not occur more
than twice per month on the same property/^
1.
2.
SECTION 6. Section 20.35.090, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
“20.35.090
restrictions,
following shielding requirements and usage restrictions:
Shielding requirements and usage
[Outdoor lighting fixtures shall conform to the
Lamp Type Shielding Requirement Usage Restrictions
Class I
Augmented
monochromatic
Fully shielded None
Low
sodium
Fully shielded Nonepressure
Metal halide Partially shielded Off from 11:00
p.m. to sunrise*
All others Fully shielded None
Class II
- 6 -
Fully shielded NoneAugmented
monochromatic
Fully shielded NoneLow
sodium
pressure
Fully shieldedothers NoneAll
(existing)
All others (new)
Class III
Fully shielded None
Fully shielded NoneLow
sodium
pressure
Fully shielded NoneHigh
sodium
pressure
Off from 11:00
p.m. to sunrise*
Neon None
Fully shielded
Partially shielded
Others None
Off from 11:00
p.m. to sunrise*
Others
Class IV
Fully shieldedExisting
Low pressure
sodium
None
Fully shielded None
Fully shieldedHigh
sodium
Nonepressure
Fully shielded
*These lights may be used between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise if
business or recreational activities are taking place, but shall be
turned off no later than one hour after conclusion of activities.]
All non-exempt fixtures must be full cutoff fixtures with
the light source fully shielded and directed downward.
All fixtures using metal halide or neon lights must be
Others None
A.
B.
turned off by 11:00 p.m.
The following are exempt from the fully shieldedC.
requirement:
String lights may be used year-round to
illuminate decks, porches, and patios but are prohibited from
illuminating landscaping or outlining structures.
Pathway lighting less than eighteen inches in
height with a total light output that is less than 300 lumens.”
1.
2.
SECTION 7. Material to be repealed is bracketed. New material is
In printing this bill, the County Clerk need not include theunderscored.
brackets, the bracketed material, or the undersco' ig.
- 7 -
SECTION 8. This Ordinance takes effect on approval.
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY:
KEOLA R. WHITTAKER
Deputy Corporation Counsel
Department of the Corporation Counsel
County of Maui
LF2021-1677
CARE-74 2022-05-27 Ord Amd Ch 20.35
care:misc:074abill05
- 8 -
Exhibit 2
May 20. 2020
Mr. Brian A. Bilberry
Deputy Corporation Counsel
Department of the Corporation Counsel
County of Maui
200 South High Street. 3'^ floor
Wailuku. Maui. Hawaii 96793
Dear Mr. Bilberiy :
This letter is in response to your letter of May 8, 2020 as well as your email of May 13.
2020 in which you request that I consider and addre.ss llfteen questions which you posed.
These answers will provide the majority of my responsive observations and opinions on
the case of Hawai'i Wildlife Fund v. County of Maui, ct al. In the response below, your
questions are shown in red: my answers in black.
1. Does the moon make or produce light on its own? Where does moonlight come from?
The moon does not produce any light on its
own. It does, however, reflect between 3% and 12%
of the sunlight which falls on its surface. This is the
light that we see on the earth. The phases of the moon
(e.g. new moon, quarter moon, full moon, etc.) are a
result of the relative positions of the earth, moon and
sun and the major reason that the amount of moonlight
varies. In addition as shown in Figure I. measurements
made on soil samples returned from the moon show a
higher reflectivity of long wavelength light (red) than short wavelengths (blue).
irflcctWKC of Moon *v>fk0 10
0 12
i OOt
004
OuO
TOO400 MO bOO
Figure /● liejlecfonce of moon soil
vtT,Yj/.y woveiengih
2. What is the spectral power distribution of moonlight? Does the moon present itself as
blue? Why or why not?
Since the source of moonlight is simply reflected sunlight, the spectral power
distribution of the light coming
from the moon's surface should
be similar to the spectral power
distribution
However, due to the increased
reflectivity of the moon's surface
at longer wavelength (red),
measurements conflrnr that
moonlight has a higher longer
wavelength content and lower
shorter wavelength content than
sunlight as shown in Figure 2.
of sunlight.
Figure 2- Com/hirison of s/>ec(ral liistrihution of sunlight vs. moonlight
1 11> a g e
People often speak of a ’“blue moon.” In fact, moonlight is never blue. It varies
from white (a full spectrum of all the visible wavelengths) to yellow-orange color
(reduced short wavelength content), fhe moon appears most white when it is directly
overhead: it appears less white (more orange-
red) when it is at the horizon. The dilTerence is
due to the atmosphere. Shorter wavelength
(blue) light is scattered by the atmosphere due
to what is called Rayleigh scattering. This is
why the sky looks blue during the day. as a
portion of the blue light from the sun is
scattered by the atmosphere. The longer the
path of the light through the atmosphere, the
more blue content is removed (scattered).
When the moon is directly overhead, the light
path to the observer is the shortest (le.ss blue
light lost): when the moon Is at the horizon, the
light path is longer (more blue light lost). Figure 3 shows the changing color of the moon
as It rises.
Figure i- (‘hanging color ofmoon as ii rises due to
Rayleigh scattering
3. In his April 20. 2020 letter report .lay Penniman refers to a paper i.c.. Rapid
.Assessment of lamp spectrum to quantify ecological effects of light at night. Figure 2 and
fable 3 in the paper present data purporting to show species response to light spectra.
Figure 2 shows response curves of various species to the visible light spectrum, fable 3
includes data purporting to show species response to various types of lighting. Are the
llgure and table consistent with .lay PennimatTs assumption that "due to their higher
blue-light content, the new LFO streetlight Hxtures pose greater harm to imperiled
seabirds than the I IPS tlxtures they have replaced?”
They are not. I:\amining the data provided (“
in Penniman’s reference. I llnd his conclusion that ®
the new LED streetlight fixtures “pose greater
harm to imperiled seabirds than the UPS fixtures
they have replaced” perplexing. Figure 3 has been
pulled from the paper Rupid Assessment of Lamp
Spectrum to Quantify Eco/offical Effects of Lif*ht
at that Penniman references. Note that
extraneous plots have been removed to allow the
axes to be displayed next to the Shearwater curve.
From the curve I conclude that the Shearwater eye
response is more sensitive in the yellow region
than in the blue. The peak response looks to be
approximately at around 565nm. Based on that curve, if I wanted to minimize the optical
response of the Newell's Shearwater. I would want to remove light in the longer
wavelengths not the shorter ones, since that is vv here the greater response occurs.
Newell's Shearwater1.00-1
§. 0.80-(/)® 0.60-
B 0.40-
f 0.20-
w 0.00-
(/)
i  ■ i ● i ● 1 ■ 1 ■ I ■ i ● I ● i
350 450 550 650 750
Wavelength
Figure V- Spectral Res/M/nse of Sewell’s
Shearwater vs. W avelength
2 11’ a g C
TABLC ) AcBni< oci—r M«Sin«ntrftct»lpawf far««»iotWt»»crwmK «w*crnpanttt
dMBCr**s
●At ItIMKI
ladn
W>tk l<Wt«ad
WMYka SafeMn %MnPtasiatitftftaBt MoMll|M tawn
30 «0$4 JO SO no«s 4] a «6
t4It 39 «S 43 41A 44 32 U
10 3S4t u 47K*tai«f«0< M U 4 *
It 57 74 20 54It VFwlliMn S3 31
7527 24 72 «0 24utso 65 C S3
27 7027 51 nSOKMVM* 45 43 25
10 It 4fUt txacanlyM
CHO«w«M 13W
13 If 4141 24 14
37 72 22 ●15S 3B 90 40 fl
7217 IS20 31 45 fO
joaoKico
41 x>
7324 9f 47 ●7 !●57 95 25
ft 28 812f S3 74OCntOM92W
U4l81Ma»70W
C«ancM«4H44<)c
70 W
L5CC4adM|M3D14
CW54W
43 43 32
7327 ■7 2337 25 Sf 4854
27 32 7337 35 9f 48 8754
17 13 7530 27 tl42 18 64
38 11 7*75 fl45 45 O 41
773724 51 72 »t41 2t44
7f37 7D to 21CounopaJssM
YMBanar
KAffiMOd
AClTtW
58 34 4]
37 3f 7453 75 8756 47
7313 17 f2 1141 35 U 41
7313 1025 U 17 41 fl41
18 10 80n 27 f3CWf5 74WWCW7 58 28 44
34 3f 51 46 20IWMAJiOW 10 1741
7837 14 22 f3 10CM5 74m7CW30 59 18 44
87 5t f3 10 71CMCSAamiUiM
ISOWHfS
23 38 A444
8357 15 If 2f 65 0f 1430
4730 ts 87tniaw 55 u u 25 48
Figure 5- Actinic Response to Wirious l.ighi Sources
Likewise, I am confused by Penniman's conclusion based on figure 4 (labeled
Table 3) from the l.ongcore reference. This lablc is labeled "Actinic power as a percent
of total power for each of the taxonomic-specitlc responses" and lists light sources versus
actinic power percentage for various species. According to the lES Lighting Handbook"*:
"A photochemical etTect produced by radiant power is said to be an aclinic elTect."
Longcore on page 5 of the referenced paper detlncs actinic power as a percent of total
power as "the amount of energy from each lamp spectrum that affects the various species
and photometric indices." Longcore goes on to describe that a high value has a stronger
inlluence on the species listed than does a lower value. Lor example salmon with values
between 8.7 and 31 are described as least influenced by the lamps tested.
Based on this description provided by Longcore. as I view the lablc in figure 4. 1
can see that in the column marked "Shearwater" a 150W UPS lamp source has a value of
82: a filtered LED source (CWES 74WW CW7) has a value of 80 and a Philips
AmbientI.ED
value of 73.
LED
has a
In fact.
every
listed in the Shearwater
column
source
has a 7.000 8,000 9.000 10,0006^0001,000 3.000 XOOO 4.000 S.OOO
percentage value lower
than the UPS source.
This is consistent w ith the previous discussion on the spectral response of the Shearwater.
Figure 3. Given that data, it is unclear to me why ans^ne would suggest reverting to the
Figure 6- I 'isihle Color v.v Correlated Color Temperature
3 ! P a g c
previous UPS sources used on Maui. Further, since the 'Mlltered*' examples had higher
actinic percentages, in most cases, than the not filtered Ll:l) light sources, it is also not
clear, based on this data, why one would want to ●●filler” the streetlights. The only
exception was the entry CWES Anna's Ughl which, while it had the lowe.si aclinic value
for LED sources (71). its CCT was 1193 according to Table 2 in the Longcore reference
which as shown in Figure 5 is well into the red and unsuitable fora streetlight.
4. Discu.ss how I IPS sources emit light as compared to how LED sources emit light.
A High-Pressure Sodium (UPS) lamp is part of the High Intensity Discharge
(HID) family of light sources. HID lamps create light by
passing an electric current through a gas. Electrons passing
through the gas momentarily excite gas atoms to a higher
energy stale. When those atoms return to their original slate,
they give up that excess energy in the form of light. An UPS
lamp is composed of an outer transparent envelope, typically
made of borosilicate glass and an inner discharge tube as
shown in Figure 6. The discharge tube typically contains
Xenon gas and a Sodium-Mercury amalgam. Electrodes are
located at the lop and bottom of the discharge tube.
To light the UPS lamp, a high voltage is initially placed between the two
electrodes (typically l .5kV to 4kV). causing the Xenon gas to ionize and begin to form
an electrical arc discharge. As the temperature rises, the sodium begins to vaporiz-c and
enter the arc. As those sodium atoms are excited and subsequently return to their original
(ground) state, they emit light energy (photons) primarily in the yellow region of the
spectrum.
Discharge
tube made
of Alumina
(AI2O3)
1
I7. Image of an UPS lamp
A Light Emitting Diode (LED) device is pan of the electrolumines cent family of
light sources. Like all diodes. LEDs only allow current to How in one direction. Without
getting loo deeply into the physics. LEDs are formed by creating a P-N junction, where
the P material is doped with atoms having positions in their orbitals that can accept
electrons and the N material is doped with atoms having positions in their orbitals that
have available electrons that can be shared with other atoms. At the P-N junction what is
known as a ●●depletion /.one” is formed which creates a barrier to prevent low energy
electrons from cro.ssing.
To activate an LED device, a voltage Is placed across the P-N junction, which
boosts electrons into the conduction band of the atoms and gives them enough extra
energy to cross over this
●●depletion zone.** The atoms
which now have the.se high
energy electrons in their
Conduction Bands are in an
excited stale. When they return
to their une.xciled (ground) stale,
the high energy electron drops
from the Conduction Band to a
E( - Bottom of Conduction Band
~r~M  EgAIInGaP _
^glnGaN
Ey ● Top of Valence Band
■ electron O Hole Photon
vacant orbital in the Valence
Band (what physicists call a
Figure S- Oi/fereiu Energ\‘ Levels Produce Dijferent
H’avelenglh Pholons
4 I P a g e
**holc”). The excess energy is released as light as was the case with the MPS lights.
However, in the case of the Li:D. the energy level differences arc very specitlc.
depending on what type of doping was done. As shown in Hgure 7. electrons dropping
from excited states where there is a large energy level ditTerence will release high energy
photons (blue): excited electrons dropping from lower energy level differences will
lease low energy photons (red). Thus, in the case ot LED devices, the color produced
is dependent on the type of doping and the energy level differences (Band Gaps)
produced. An LED with a specinc Band Gap will produce a very narrow band of light in
terms of wavelength (color).
“White** LEDs typically contain a blue LED die (the P-N junction) with a
phosphor coating covering the die.
Some of the blue photons emitted by the
blue I.ED interact with the phosphor
coating and downconvert those blue
photons to yellow ones. So. the overall
light coming from this type of LED is a
mi.xture of blue and yellow light. In the
human eye. blue and yellow light
combined gives the sensation of white
light. The light from this type of LED is
typically called “cool** white due to the
higher percentage of blue content. If the
phosphor coating contains both yellow
and red producing phosphors, the
resulting light will be a mixture of blue, yellow, and red. resulting in what is called
“warm** white, where the light has less blue content. The spectral power distributions of
both types arc show'n in Figure 8.
re
y - Cool versus H arm LED Specira
5. Discuss how the overall light output of MPS light sources are controlled as compared
to how the overall light output of l.ED light sources are controlled.
Photons from both I IPS discharge tubes and LED P-N junctions are emitted in all
directions. In the case of HPS sources, there is nothing to change that distribution and so
light radiates out of an HPS lamp in all directions. In the case of an LED device, photons
are limited in the directions that they exit
the device. When light passes through an
interface where the index of refraction
changes, as in the case of the LED die and
either air or an attached lens, an effect
known as Snell's Law controls the angle
that the light exits the interface.
In the figure on the right, the red
path intersects the interface at a relative
shallow angle (with respect to the
perpendicular of the interface plane) and so
most of the light passes through the interface. In the case of the green path, it intersects
the interface at a much steeper angle and rather than passing through the interface, it is
Figure W - Diagram Showing Effect of Snell's Uiw on
Different Angle Light Paths
5 I P a g e
rcHecled back into ihe LHD device. This is known as Total Inlemal Retleciion ( TIR).
For typical LF.D devices, this total renection occurs at the point the emitted light is an
angle of 60** with respect to the interlace. Beyond that angle no light is transmitted. This
means that the emitted LFD light from an LFD device is restricted to a cone of+/- 60*T
So. while light from an UPS source radiates in all directions, light from an LED source is
limited to a cone whose axis is perpendicular to the surface of the LED die.
6. Discuss how the distribution and direction of IIPS light sources are ctmtrolled as
compared to how the distribution and direction of L1;D light sources are controlled.
As discussed in the previous answer. LED sources have an inherent advantage
over IIPS .sources in that the LED light is already con.strained to a +/- 60** cone whose
axis is perpendicular to the LED device. A second advantage is that LED sources closely
approximate the basic optics axiom: ‘’assume a point source*' when designing optics
retlectivc (mirror) and refractive (lens) mechanisms for redirecting the light radiated from
the sources. An TIPS light source with its much larger size does not approximate a point
source. The small size of an I.ED allows optical engineers to direct the photons to
exactly where they want them to go. Creating LED llxturcs with no uplight (light exiting
the luminaire at an angle greater than 90*’) and minimal light trespass is much easier to
achieve than for UPS llxtures. The significance of that difference allows luminaire
designers to produce LED street light fixtures which provide much more uniform light
distribution. Often with TIPS fixtures there is a pool of e.xcessive light directly under the
fixture. Properly designed LED fixtures do not have that issue. Light trespass is also
more easily controlled with LED fixtures using simple refractive optics rather than the
mechanical shades and shutters u.sed with TIPS fixtures.
7. What is the significance of Robert .Adams' conclusion in his April 20. 2020 letter that
“It|hc blue-light content in percentages for the LL!D fixture remains e.ssentially the same
regardless of v^hether the LED fixture is operating at 100% output or dimmed?"
None that I can see. There would be no physics reason why one would expect the
percentage of blue light to shift as the overall output of the LED light source w-as
reduced, with the exception of a very slight change due to the cooler temperature of the
dimmed LED die and its associated phosphor. To my know ledge, optic systems of any
type require a certain number of photons impinging on the sensor (in this case short
wavelength cones) to trigger a response. I am not aware of any optic systems that are
sensitive to percentage.
8. Does .Adams' conclusion indicate that dimming an 1.1:1) will not affect its overall
brightness? Wh\ orwh> not?
No. it does not. Adams concludes that dimming an l.ED fixture does not change
the percentage of blue light. As mentioned in the answer to the previous question, there
is typically a very small increase in the efficiency of the yellow phosphor due to the
cooler temperature of the LED die. resulting in a very .small increase in the percentage of
yellow and a corresponding reduction is percentage of blue light emitted.
To clarify, brightness is not a measurable physical quantity. It is “the perceptual
response to a source of light." according to the lES Lighting Handbook^. As it is
perceptual, brightness is affected by a number of other lighting elements: Again referring
6 I P a g c
lo ihc IKS Handbook - ’’Five factors usually govern the transformation or mapping of
luminance as stimulus to brightness as response: object luminance, surround luminance,
state of adaption, gradient (rate of change of luminance with visual angle), and spectral
content.” Luminance, on the other hand, is a quantity that can be dellned and measured.
It is the luminous intensity of a light .source (measured in candela) divided by the area of
the emitting surface (measured in square-meters).
So. dimming an LED will affect Its overall luminance (which is perceived as
brightness). Dimming would directly affect the luminous (lux (the light output) which
would reduce the luminous intensity (light output per unit sleradian angle) which would
reduce the luminance (luminous intensity per unit area), and therefore the perceived
brightness.
9. Plaintiffs assert that installing a blue light lllier on LKI3 Fixtures will reduce potential
barm to seabirds. Is Adams* proposal to reduce the percentage of blue-light content by
installing a filter on LEI) fixtures consistent with the data shown in Figure 2 and fable
of the Longcore paper on shearwater ey e response? Why or why not?
Adams* proposal does not make sense to me based on the data provided in
l.ongcore’s paper. As discussed previously in Question 2. according to figure 3. the eye
response of the shearwater is greater in the yellow-red (500nm to 650nm) range than it is
in the blue range (400nm to 500nm). Likewise. Figure 4 (Table 3) shows a higher
response of the shearwater to MPS light than to any of the LED llxtures, except the one
labeled Anna's Light, which as previously observed would not be suitable for a streetlight
since it is red.
10. Can the CjL lAolve KRL I Ll-I) llxiiire be dimmed to be less bright than the C»f
M2AC HPS it is proposed to replace? Can you discu.ss any other advantages of the GF!
Evolve ERL 1 LED llxture over the GE M2AC I IPS light?
Yes. the GE Evolve ERL I LED fixture can be dimmed to produce less light than
the GE M2AC FIPS fixture. In general LED fixtures and lamps can easily be dimmed.
While not typical for streetlights, some indoor architectural applications require LED
fixtures capable of dimming down to 1/2% (0.005 of initial light output). There are tw'o
methods of dimming an LED: 1) vary the input current to the LEDs: 2) use a Pulse
Width Modulation (PWM) approach, fhe first method works simply because LEDs are
current dependent devices - electrons (current) pass through the LED and photons (light)
come out. If you have less electrons, you have less photons, e.g. reduce the current and
you reduce the light. The second method of dimming has been used in the electronics
industry since the 1960‘s. Pulse Width Modulation dimming involves turning the LEDs
on and off at a rapid rate. If. for example, you turn the LED on for 1 msec (I/IOOO of a
second) and then off for 9 msec and repeat that sequence over and over, the LED will be
output light for only 10% of the time (e.g. dimmed down to 10%). Humans do not
perceive the rapid on/off sequence. To them, the LED just appears to be dimmed to 10%
(ignoring the non-linear human perception of dimming). I prefer the PWM approach as it
is more efficient in terms of the power supply.
There is no indication in the product literaiure that the GE M2AC HPS fixtures
are dimmable. It is possible to dim HPS lamps, however it requires a special ballast and
the amount of dimming is very restricted. I hc National Electrical Manufacturers
7 I a g e
Association (NEMA). for example, recommends never dimminu an UPS light source
below 50%^
UPS lamp requires a high temperature to keep the Sodium and Mercury vapor ionized.
Running an HPS below 50% reduces the temperature of the lamp such that the gas
ionization is reduced, and the lamp extinguishes (turns oH).
Other advantages of the GE Evolve LED fixture versus the GE M2AC UPS
llxture include energy savings, much longer lifetime, more uniform light distribution over
the roadway, zero restrike time (the time that must pass between when an UPS lamp is
turned off until it can be
turned back on again
which can be I to 2
minutes or more).
Another advantage of an
LED source is its
directionality,
covered in Question 5.
LEDs inherently allows
extremely sharp light
cutoffs. The picture at
right was from a lest run by Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) several years ago in San
Francisco^. It shows the difference between an HPS fixture (on the left) and an LED
fixture on the right. The sharp cutofffor the LED fixture is obvious and not possible with
HPS fixtures.
There is a simple explanation for this restriction. The functioning of an
As
Figure / / -1 ompcirison ofCuio/J'/or NFS Fixtures (Left) <vui l.F.D Fixtures
(Right!
Figure 11 is from a paper published by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. It
shows the same roadway illuminated by I IPS fixtures on the left and LED fixtures on the
right. HPS sources are more difficult to control the light distribution than are LED
fixtures. As is obvious from the figure. HPS lighting results in pooling of higher
intensity bright spots under the fi.xlures on the roadway, while I.ED fixtures provide a
more uniform light distribution with no pooling or bright spots.
Figure 12 ● Com/xirisoii of UPS vs. LED lit street
1 i. Are there any industry standards for the manufacture and fabrication of fillers on
streetlights to remove blue light from LIT)s?
I am not aware of any industry standards for filters to be used on streetlights to
remove blue light from LED fixtures. It does not make sense from an energy saving
perspective to use light sources (while LEDs) that produce a broad spectrum and then
8 I P a g c
throw away the energy in the blue portion of that spectrum. If 1 were trying to design a
streetlight that had the blue portion of the visible spectrum removed. I would start with
yellow or yellow and red LEDs, not white ones. Given that it makes no sense from an
energy reduction (c.g. reducing global warming) perspective. I cannot imagine why
anyone would waste their lime developing such a standard.
12. Are there any safety guidelines for using tillers on streeilighis to remove blue light
content from artificial lighting?
Most safely standards come from organizations such as UL (in the US), CSA (in
Canada) and CE (in Europe). As per my response in the previous question. I do not
believe any of these organizations have produced any safely guidelines for such a
product, nor would they have any incentive to do so.
13. What are the potential problems with using lllters on streetlights to remove blue light
from artificial lighting?
fhere are a number of potential issues:
a) By eliminating the blue portion of the spectrum from the light output, the overall
light illumination is reduced since a portion of the optical output power has been
filtered out. To compensate, one would have to increase the overall power to the
streetlight to compensate for the missing power in the blue portion of the
spectrum,
b) Attaching an additional optical device on the streetlight, voids the manufacturer's
warranty as per the letter from l isa A. Bail, staling that MECO (Maui Electric)
has been informed by GE (the manufacturer of the Maui County LED streetlights)
that such an action would void the warranty**,
c) Unless the manufacturer of the filler applied to the safely li.sling agencies (UL,
CSA. etc.) that provided the listing, adding the filter would more than likely void
that listing. Agencies like UL do not allow field modifications to listed products
without first having had the chance to study and approve the proposed field
modification. As previously mentioned in my Declaration, per UL: “When a UL
Listed product is modified after it leaves the factory'. Ul- has no way to determine
if the product continues to comply w'iih the applicable safely requirements
without investigating the modified product for compliance."^
d) Plastic, particularly when used in outdoor environments can change color due to
UV radiation from daylight. Have these filters been tested to ensure that their
optical properties w ill remain constant during the expected lifetime of the fixture?
e) Docs the addition of the filter on the LED streetlight affect the thermal
performance of the fixture in any w ay? Has that been tested?
f) Adding an additional layer to the optical path could potentially reduce the light
output in the desired range by creating an additional optical interface between the
streetlight's original glass lens and this additional yellow filter,
g) While not addressed elsewhere in these answers, there arc additional advantages
of white LED light over UPS or yellow' LED lighting. In survey after survey,
residents generally prefer the look of the LED light over UPS. Police departments
prefer the white light as it makes identifying colors of car or clothing of
9 1 P a g e
individuals easier,
although that is greatly dependent on the light adaption level of the driver*'^.
Reaction lime for drivers and pedestrians can be affected.
14. Does the Gl- Involve I.-RL I LI'.I) purchased In the County of Maui
meet the guidelines for seabird friendly lighting as provided by the attached Dl.NR
publication?
Yes. it does. I'igure 12 show the types of fixtures that are considered acceptable
along with a plot show ing the acceptable light distribution from a seabird friendly fixture.
One characteristic of seabird friendly streetlights is the light source and lensing does not
extend below the fixture. Figure 13 from the GR Evolve brochure shows that nothing
extends below the fixture housing, as shown in Figure 12 for streetlights. Likewi.se.
Figure 14 shows the light distribution from the GE Evolve ERL I fixture. Note that
light (the blue line in the plot) extends above the 90” point in the plot, meaning that there
   is no uplight from the fixture.
no
SEABIRD FRIENDLY LIGHTING SOLUTIONS
Help«limtnat« lealxtd hgtil attraction. Select the bett fiiture
for futt application usm9 iNi guide. Avoid uplighUng. always shield
floodlights, and aim downbghis carefully to avoid light trespass. For more
information go to wwwJuuai seabirdhcpJnfo. (lustrations by Bob CreUrt.
Unacceptable / Discouragedine* jo 9ia>* M ee'Vaai Acceptable 1' n;)m »H^lliu|iM
tnd n lacauto tMw mop H nqn
= &
CijearuKm
a> Peoair tfw*SM Ftooili^ rw*vsrwoM
Fiar»MiaM BoMi
●< A
SuntnakMder
e«an^«rwMMWai V
c
r.ay pMMFta/woneiM t
w usand IxA●*»MDr U>«
rutCiJeasvamgMuntrwOM Setaa^s
FiarSiwoM
,  . e«roasi>^
AOiahMM
F«r>M 9m*
.  rga/M .
SNMSM
SaortfUgMS*oMrl4N
rw>wwMCw«viFklmtPM nocMIgn*Cne-L**'* Caiieeit
- Venical plone through horizomol ongle of Mox. Cd at 80“
- Horeof>tol cone through venicol ongle of Mox. Cd ot 67*
UnViMM lottOghi AM a atgad ncanMi SKMM lM*gM rw a
i!IH higure 15 ● Lighl Dislrihulion Pallern
IH'i:-a
Figure H ■ Seahini Friendly Light Fixture ('haructeristics
10 I P age
15. In his April 20. 2020 letter report. Robert Adams found that the
blue-light content of a IMiilips UPS lamp he tested, rated at iOO vsalls. is 10.1%. Would
the result of Adams* calculation for the Philips UPS lamp be the same for the Cil' I IPS
lamp that the C'ount> of Maui wants to replace? Why or vshy not? If not. hovs does the
CJI' UPS lamp that C'ouniy of Maui wants to replace compare with the GB Involve KRl. I
LRI) in amount of blue-light output?
Mr. Adams in his submissions included as a baseline, an LM-79 lest run on an
HPS fixture. He used that data to show that the LED fixtures the county installed to
replace the old UPS fixtures had a higher Blue Light Content (actually Blue Light Power
Content). Unfortunately. Mr. Adams is incorrect in two areas,
l-'irst. he chose the wrong UPS wattage to test. According to the label on the
fixture shown on the llrst page of Test Report LI, 1-19290-3". the lamp Mr. Adams chose
is a lOOW. This is confirmed by the lamp manufacturer's model number shown
throughout the report (Philips Model CIOOS54ALTO) as the “IOO" in the model code
indicates it is a lOOW lamp. W’hile the county of Maui did order a small percentage (less
than 1%) of LED fixtures (GE Model ERL I-0-06) to replace the old lOOW UPS fixtures,
the vast majority of the order (95%) was for the same LED fixture (.same model GE
Model ERL 1-0-06) to replace old 150W HPS fixtures. There were also a small
percentage (4%) of a higher output LED fixtures (GE Model ERL I-0-09) to replace old
250W HPS fi.xlures. This means that Mr. Adams based his conclusions on a I IPS fixture
(lOOW) that represents less than 1% of all the units to be replaced. The GE literature’"
for the ERLl product shows that the -06 version has a input power of 47W and a light
output for 2700'’K CCT of 5700 lumens. The -09 version has an input of 84W and a
light output for 2700“K CC T of 8500 lumens.
Second, as previously discussed in question 7. Mr. Adams keeps referring to Blue
l.ight Percentage and makes a point of show ing that for an LED fl.xture. the percentage of
blue light does not change when the LED fixture is dimmed. Ignoring the slight efTect of
the phosphor becoming more eflicient at lower temperatures as previously mentioned,
this observation is meaningless. It is the actual optical power emitted in the blue light
region of the spectrum that the Maui Street I.ighting Standard" is concerned with, not the
percentage. If an LED fixture is dimmed, the amount of power emitted in this blue
region will be reduced along with the power emitted across the entire visible spectrum. If
you dim an LED fixture from 100% to 30%. as Mr. Adams states, the percentage of blue
light will remain the same [approximately - as I previously stated) but the actual power
of the light in the blue region will go down by 70%. likew ise, the green, yellow , orange
and red regions. It is the power of the light emitted in a region of the spectrum that
afTects the optic system of species, not the percentage.
In his Declaration. Mr. Adams makes a comparison of the GE LED Fixture
chosen by the county of Maui (ERL1006B327AGRAY) with the HPS Fi.xture chosen by
Mr. Adams (containing a lOOW HPS lamp). Based on testing Mr. Adams had conducted
by LighiLab International, he slates that the Blue l.ight Power Content of the LED fixture
is 1.96 W. while the HPS fixture is 1.59W. The County of Maui Street Lighting Standard
defines the blue light portion of the spectrum to be within the wavelengths of 405nm to
530nm and the overall measured spectrum to be within the wavelengths of 380nm to
730nm. While a minor point. Mr. Adams choses to use a different lighting standard
which apparently defines the blue light portion of the spectrum to be within the
II I P a g e
wavelengths of 400nm to 500nm and the overall measured spectrum to be within the
wavelengths of 400nm to 700nm.
The major fallacy in Adams’ comparison, as previous pointed out is that Mr.
Adams chose a lamp wattage for the HPS test that represents less than 1% of the entire
population of HPS fixtures to be replaced. If one were to scale the HPS fixture result that
Mr. Adams obtained to what it would have been for  aI SOW lamp, the Blue Light Power
Content would have been approximately 2.38W for the HPS fixture. This is 0.42W
higher than the Blue Light Power Content from the LED fixture. So, for 95% of the LED
fixtures, their Blue Light Power Content is significantly less than the 150W HPS fixtures
they are replacing. Regarding the less than 1% of LED fixtures replacing the lOOW HPS
fixtures (where Adams’ testing is approximately valid), the LED fixtures could easily be
dimmed to 81%, if required, resulting in a Blue Light Power Content below that of the
HPS fixtures.
In conclusion, I want to make the following observations, based on all the
material that I have reviewed.
1) It is not clear to me why anyone would want to have the previous HPS
fixtures put back. Besides the fact that they are less efficient than the LED
fixtures that replaced them, they also produce more light in the blue region
according to the test data provided by Adams, except for that less than 1% of
the lOOW HPS fixtures. As pointed out previously, the amount of blue light
emitted by the LED fixtures can be reduced below what the lOOW HPS
fixtures produced by simply dimming the LED fixtures by 19%, again
according to the test data that Adams provided.
2) It is also unclear to me why Adams chose to test an HPS fixture that
represented an insignificant portion of the HPS lights that were being
replaced. If 1 were going to make a comparison between HPS and LED
fixtures, I would choose the HPS fixture that represented the majority of the
fixtures to be replaced. In this case, testing a 150W HPS fixture would have
represented 95% of the fixtures, whereas the lOOW HPS fixture represented
less than 1%.
3) One comment in the Longcore paper that I find interesting can be found on
page 7: “Also, mitigation schemes that depend on spectrum can be
undermined by brightness. Any approach to reduce ecological effects of
lights must keep intensity to a minimum and can then perhaps further reduce
adverse effects through tuning of the spectrum used.” My experience has
been that in any surveys of the public on streets that have been converted from
HPS to LED, that if the light output of the LED fixtures is adjusted to the
same level as the HPS (measured in either lux or ft-cd), the general opinion of
the public is that the LED lit street is brighter. This is a result of the wider
spectrum of light, including the blue portion. Removing the blue portion of
the spectrum from LED fixtures requires increasing the overall output to make
up for the missing blue portion. So rather than reduce the overall brightness,
that Longcore stated “must be kept to a minimum,” in fact, is increased.
4) Jay Penniman, in his Expert Disclosure Report states that the light of the
moon has a short wavelength spectral signature. That is incorrect. As I
12 [Page
pointed out in the answer to the Hrst question, the reflectivity of the moon's
surface is much higher in the red region (long wavelengths) than in the blue
(short wavelengths). This is a common misconception. Regarding starlight.
Wikipedia lists a value for a moonless night as 0.000200 lux. As a
comparison, moonlight has a value of about 0.1 lux.
5) Lastly. 1 would just like to reiterate my comment from my Declaration
regarding the safety of people, the reason the streetlights are there in the first
place. To slap yellow filters on LLD fixtures without any studies to determine
the eflect on safety for drivers and pedestrians is reckless. Cities across the
entire world have been exchanging UPS streetlighting for higher efficiency
and broader spectrum LED streetlights for 10 years or more and there are
many studies issued regarding the results. I do not recall ever seeing a study
where a broad spectrum light source was removed and replaced with a
**yellow” source. 1 would urge caution as the county moves forward.
Replacing the UPS fixtures with LED fixtures reduces the amount of blue
light as previously discussed. There is a decade of experience as to the effect
on humans of replacing yellow UPS with white LED fixtures: there is zero
experience going the other way
Sincerely.
'Slii
JOHN WILLIAM CURRAN.
Dr. John (Jack) W. Curran. President
LED Transformations. LLC
41 Balsam Bay Court
Bluffton. SC 29910
(843) 706-9520 (office)
(908) 892-8777 (cell)
e-mail: icurran@ledtransformations com
web; www-ledtransformations-com
1
Transformationsuc
<  to SoM SUM
13 I P age
List of Sources for Kigures
Figures 1.2. 3 By the H^ht of the silvery Moon: fact and fiction, Ciocca. M. &
Wang. .1.. Physics Hducation Vol 48 (3), 2013.
Rapid Assessment of Lamp Spectrum to Quantify Ecolofiicat
Effects of Lifiht at IS/if»ht, Longcorc. T.. Rodriguez. A..
Witherington. B.. Pcnniman. J.. Ilerf, 1... Merf. M.. Journal of
I-'xperimental Zoology. Vol 1(11). 2018
Color Temperature.
Imps: ^\\u^■liuh(inL;dc^i■Jnlab■com■l●c^ources'ar^iclc^artic^c^-
liuluiti’j-rundamciuals coloi-tcmncraiuiv
l.FD Transformations. LLC
LED Street Lifihthtfi, Cook. T., Shackelford. J.. Pang. 1., Bryan.
M., Department of Fnergy Gateway Program in association with
Pacific Gas and Fleclric. December 2008. p.32
Lif^ht at Ni}*ht—A Delicate Balance, Kinzey. B.. Miller. N.,
Pacific Northwest National l.aboratory. March 2018 p. 4.
Seabird Friendly l/ighling Solutions. Department of Land and
Natural Resource.s. State of Haw aii.
GE Evolve LED Roadway Liffhtinf* Data Sheet OLP3128 (rev
10/10/17).
Lighting Design Lab. Seattle. WA,
Figures 4 & 5
Figure 6
Figures 7. 8. 9.10
Figure 11
Figure 12
Figure 13
Figures 14& 15
‘ By the Ufiht of the silvery Moon: fact and fi ction, Ciocca, M. & Wane. J.. Phvsic.s Kducalion Vol 48 (3).
2013, p.361.
- By the lluht of the silver> Moon: fact and fiction. Ciocca. M. & Wane. J.. Phvsics tducation Vol 48
|3). 2013. p 363.
' Rapid Assessment of Lamp Spectrum to Quantify Ecological Effects of Lifiht at i\ifiht, Longcore. I'..
Rodrigue/. A., Wilheringlon. B.. Pcnniman. J.. Ilerf. L.. Herf. M.. Journal on-:.\perimenial Zooloey. Vol
I(11).20I8.
* The Lighting Handbook. DiLaura. D.. Houser. K.. Mislrick. R.. ShelTy. G. (editors). Illuminating
l£ngineo4ring Society. lO'^' Kdition. 2011. p. 3.6.
^ The Lifihtiiiff Handbook. f3il.aura. I)., flousor, K.. Mistrick, R.. ShelTy. G. (editors). Illuminating
Enginee4ring Society. I0'*‘ Edition. 2011. p. 4.8.
(iuidelines on the Application ofDimminf* to Hif>h-lntensity Discharge Lamps. National Electrical
Manufacturer's .Association. .April 2019, pp. 4-5.
’ LED Street Lifihtiiifi. Cook. T.. Shackelford, J.. Pang. T.. Bryan. M.. Department of Energy Gateway
Program in association with Pacific Gas and Electric, December 2008. p.32
Letter from Lisa A. Bell dated 12/19/19 and addressed to David L. Kenkin. Kylie Wagner Cruz and Brian
A. Biberry.
■' Does Repair/Replacement oj Parts Void L'L Listinf>?. Testing Laboratories Forum UL Question
Corner. lAEI News January/February 2004. p.94
Demonstration Assessment of Roadway Lif>hlinf{, Royer. M„ Tiieufte, J., Poplawski, M„ DOE Solid-
State Li}>htinf> Program, Pacific Sorth\%'est .\ational Labi>ratory. September 2012.
NVLAP Test Report LLl-19290-3. l.ightLab International. October 28. 2019
GE Evolve LED Roadway Lif>htinff Data Sheet OLP3128 (rev 10/10/17).
Street Lifihtinfi .Standards. Department of Public Works. County of Maui. Chapter 201. November 2017.
Ill
12
14 I Pago
JOHN WILLIAM CURRAN
41 Balsam Bay Ct
Bluffton,SC 29910
(908) 892-8777
jcurran@ledtransformations.com
Executive Summary Dr. Curran is an applied physicist with experience in the lighting, electronics,
fire, consulting, security and oil industries. His executive experience includes senior positions
managing the R&D efforts of a number of industrial high technolo^ businesses. Presently, he is
president of a technology consulting company specializing in providing guidance to manufacturers,
architects, contractors and facility managers on the proper use of LED technology. Previously he
headed the technology division of one of the leading manufacturers of solid-state lighting and
signaling products and prior to that, a similar position with the leading signaling manufacture in the
fire and life safety industry. His over 30 years of technical and business experience allow him to
provide creative solutions grounded in practical approaches for his clients.
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY AND ACHIEVEMENTS
LED Transformations. LLC, Bluffton, South Carolina
President and founding member of this technical consulting firm specializing in providing guidance
to companies involved in the lighting industry on the proper use of solid-state lighting technology.
Founded in 2007, the firm is in high demand for conducting training classes on LED technology
and has given numerous invited talks on the subject. In addition, from 2010 thru 2018 the company
provided educational workshops and seminars on behalf of the US Department of Energy. It has
established itself as a source of both technical information and unbiased advice for clients wishing
to provide quality LED lighting products.
2008 thru Present
2005 thru 2008Dialight Corporation. Farmingdale, New Jersey
CTO and VP Engineering for this leading worldwide manufacturer of high brightness LED (Light
Emitting Diode) products. Responsibilities includes management of optical, mechanical and
electronics functions; technology transfer among the various corporate development and
manufacturing sites; manufacturing cost reductions; representing the corporation at scientific,
engineering and government symposia and conferences.
● Eliminated duplication of efforts among the different facilities resulting in a 50% increase in the
rate of new product introductions with no increase in staff.
●  Introduced 2 new product lines within the first year which were expected to provide over $10
MM in sales within 18 months including the world’s first LED-based obstruction light strobe.
● Designed a new documentation system, which resulted in a 40% reduction (thus far) in
manufacturing documentation while improving accuracy and availability throughout the
corporation.
1992 thru 2005WHEELOCK. INCORPORATED. Long Branch, New Jersey
Vice President. Engineering for this leading supplier of fire signaling, security and emergency voice
alerting equipment in the US (S47MM in sales in 20C4). Directed a group of 24 engineers and
technicians responsible for design, documentatio’ ,agency approvals and manufacturing
engineering of all product lines. Additional responsi’ ities included concept development, market
15 I P a g e
research for possible new business lines, coordinating involvement with various industry regulatory
councils as well as special order manufacturing.
● Co-invented the industry’s first LED-based visual notification appliance (fire signal).
● Introduced innovative approaches to optic, electronic and mechanical product designs
resulting in 25 patents issued (others pending).
PA CONSULTING GROUP. Princeton, New Jersey
Manager. Sensors and Communications Technologies Group for the US Division of this
international technical consulting firm (sales in excess of S300MM in 1991). Responsible for
developing sales in the sensors and communications areas as well as formulating and managing
development programs for clients
● Managed a $2MM project to develop a consumer product for the financial industry involving
Optical Character Recognition and scanning system for a low power microprocessor based unit.
● Developed optics subsystem for a portable data acquisition two-dimensional bar coding system.
1988 thru 1992
IDENTITECH CORPORATION. Livingston, New Jersey
Vice President. Development for this joint venture of Allied-Signal and Sensormatic Electronics.
As head of Engineering Division, directed 18 engineers and technicians in the development of new
products as well as providing support for manufacturing, QC and customer service.
1987 thru 1988
ALLIED-SIGNAL CORPORATION. Morristown, New Jersey
Manager. Product Development. New Ventures Group directed 12 engineers and technicians in the
development of a new technology Electronic Article Surveillance System. Responsibilities
included: product development; technical liaison for negotiations between joint venture partners.
1985 thru 1986
EXXON PRODUCTION RESEARCH. Houston, Texas 1979 thru 1985
Research Physicist. Long Range Research Group developed new seismic exploration techniques.
DREXEL UNIVERSITY EVENING COLLEGE. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1976 thru 1979
Adjunct Assistant Professor. Physics Department taught undergraduate physics classes and labs.
EDUCATION
Doctor of Philosophy (Physics), Drexel University
Title of Thesis: An Experimental Evaluation of the Biot Porous Elastic Theory for a Kaolinite Clay
MS Civil Engineering / MS Physics, Drexel University
BS Physics, Villanova University
PATENTS, PUBLICATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS
33 US Patents Issued
150+ Lectures (Solid-State Lighting Technology)
9 Publications
Member Acoustic Society of America
Member SPIE International Society for Optical Engineering
Member Illumination Engineering Society
Member Optical Society of America
16 I P a g C
List of Public Talks & Seminars Given on LED Technology
Dr. John W. Curran
SPIE Fourth Annual Solid State Lighting Conference, An Examination of a
prototype LED fire alarm signaling appliance, 2004.
SPIE Sixth Annual Solid State Lighting Conference, Replacement of
fluorescent lamps with high-brightness LEDs in a bridge lighting application,
2006.
Lightfair, Comparison of White LEDs, 2006.
CLEO/PhAST, Limitations to be Aware of When Using LEDs in Lighting Systems,
2007.
Indiana Electrical Expo, The Darker Side of LEDs, 2008.
Lightfair. One Hundred Thousand Hour Lifetimes and Other LED Fairytales,
2008
lESNA-Phiiadetphia Lighting for a Green World Conference, How to Avoid
Feeling Blue when Using Green LEDs, 2008.
Solid State Lighting Design Summit, Questions to Ask About Luminaire
Lifetimes, 2008.
Pacific Gas & Electric Seminar, Solid State Lighting—Both Sides of the
Revolution, 2008.
Energy Efficiency & Sustainability Symposium, Energy Savings and Solid
State Lighting Technology: How GREEN are LEDs?, 2008.
Lightfair, One Hundred Thousand Hour Lifetimes and Other LED Fairytales
(Encore), 2009.
Lightfair, A Lighting Specifier's Survival Guide to LED Technology, 2009.
Pacific Gas & Electric Seminar, Solid State Lighting—The truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth, 2009
Solid State Lighting Design Summit, Common Sense Luminaire Design, 2009
Solid State Lighting Design Summit, Common Sense Luminaire Design in LA,
January 2010.
Better Buildings by Design Conference (VT), Integrating LEDs into your
Designs, February 2010.
Pacific Gas & Electric Seminar, LED Lighting—Technology and Applications,
May 2010
Lightfair, LED Performance Guidelines: Good, Bad and How to Tell the
Difference, May 2010.
Lightfair, Smoke, Mirrors and LEDs, May 2010.
Neocon, Unraveling the Mysteries of Solid-State Lighting, June 2010.
17 1 P a g e
Green Buildings NY, Solid-State Lighting. June 2010
SEBC, Understanding Solid-State Lighting: Separating Fact from Hype. July
2010
SPIE Tenth Annual Solid State Lighting Conference. Physical constraints on
the performance of LED lamp replacements forA-19, PAR-38 and MR-16
configurations. August 2010.
GovEnergy, Introduction to Solid-State Lighting:  AMarket in Motion. August
2010
Hawaiian Energy Expo. Avoiding uwe with LED lighting, September 2010
IMARK, Solid-State Lighting: Fad, Phenomenon, Future, November 2010
Michigan SSL Association, DOE Solid-State Lighting Initiatives. Resources and
Observations. November 2010
World Energy Engineering Congress, Introduction to Solid-State Liahtina,
December 2010
Electric West, LED Lighting: Ready or Not?, February 2011
MiaGreen, LED Lighting Marketplace, March 2011
OECM, LED Lighting: A Practical Overview, March 2011
Pacific Gas & Electric Seminar, LED Lighting—Technology and Applications
(Encore). April 2011
NAILD, LED Lighting: Changing the Rules, April 2011
AIA - New York, LED Lighting - Worth the Risk? May 2011
Lightfair. LED Performance: Myths and Facts, May 2011
Lightfair, LED Lighting: The Real World. May 2011
MEEA, Reducing the Risk with LED Lighting. July 2011
AIA-Westchester, LED Lighting: Worth the Risk? August 2011
GovEnergy, Cutting Edge Lighting Technologies: OLEDs. August 2011
GovEnergy, LED Lighting Basics. August 2011
lES Street and Area Lighting, Standards: Creator's Responsibilities -
Roadmap. September 2011
National Building Museum, LED Lighting: A Clash of Cultures, September
2011
Facilities Decisions Conference, Risk and Rewards of LED Lighting. October
2011
National Electrical Contractors Association, What You Don't Know About
LED Lighting Can Hurt Your Business. October 2011
Alaska Center for Appropriate Technologies, A Guide to LED Lighting Basics,
November 2011
18 i Page
Pacific Gas & Electric Seminar, LED Lighting—Technology and Applications
(2012 Edition). March 2011
National Facilities Management & Technologies (NFMT), Risk and Rewards
of LED Lighting. March 2012
NAILD, LEDs and the Implications of a Semi-Conductor Lighting World. April
2012
AIA (San Diego/San Francisco Chapters), LED Lighting: Worth the Risk? April
2012
Lightfair, LED Performance: Myths and Facts - An Industry Update, May 2012
DOE Market Introduction Workshop. Solid-State Lighting 101, July 2012
NECA, The Hype vs. Reality of LED Luminaire Lifetimes. October 2012
NFMT-West, Risk and Rewards of LED Lighting. October 2012
LightShow East, Managing the Risks of LED Lighting. October 2012
NALMCO, LED Lighting: Some Things You Might Not Know. October 2012
Design Lights Consortium. Solid-State Lighting 101/SSL Advanced, October
2012
NECA (Ohio Chapter), What You Don’t Know About LED Lighting. October 2012
Portland General Electric, LED Lighting: Changing All the Rules, October 2012
lES (Portland Chapter). Some Lesser Discussed Solid-State Lighting Topics.
October 2012
NRECA. Solid-State Lighting - An Industry Update (Webinar), October 2012
ArchEx, LED Lighting - Worth the Risk?, November 2012
Pacific Gas & Electric Workshop, LED Lighting: Technology & Applications.
November 2012
Pacific Gas & Electric Workshop, Hands-On LED Applications, November
2012
NAILD. LED Update - A Light Lunch with NAILD (Webinar), December 2012
MSSLA. LED Lighting: An Industry Update, December 2012
NET (Touchstone Energy), Cutting Edge Lighting Technologies. January 2013
lES (New Jersey Chapter), Some Lesser Discussed Solid-State Lighting Topics.
February 2013
NFMT, Revealing some of LEDs Deep, Dark Secrets, March 2013
AIA (Eastern Kentucky Chapter), LED Lighting: Worth the Risk?, March 2013
IMARK LED Lighting: Saving Energy Can Be Complicated. April 2013
Lightfair. How LEDs Work. April 2013
AIA (Denver Chapter), LED Lighting: Managing the Risk, May 2013
Portland General Electric, LED Lighting: Changing All the Rules, June 2013
19| Pago
Portland General Electric, How LEDs are Changing The Lighting World, June
2013
AIA (National Conference), LED Lighting: Worth the Risk?, June 2013
AIA (National Conference), Lighting at a Crossroads, June 2013
Design Lights Consortium, Solid-State Lighting, July 2013
US Green Buildings Council (Kentucky Chapter), LED Lighting - Managing
the Risk,
September 2013
World Energy Engineering Congress. Trends. Improvements and Issues as
the Digital Lighting Revolution Evolves, September 2013
NALMCO, Where Does LED Lighting Belong in My Facility? October 2013
LightShow West. LED Lighting - How it has Changed, What to Expect Going
Forward, October 2013
ArchEx, Why Things Go Wrong with LED Lighting, November 2013
DOE Marketing Workshop, Solid-State Lighting - The New Basics, November
2013
Architecture Boston Expo. LED Lighting ~ Worth the Risk?, November 2013
LED Specifier Summit, LED Reality Check: Today and Tomorrow, November
2013
Michigan Advanced Lighting Conference, Research, Design & Development:
What's Next?. December 2013
NAILD (Webinar), The Eye. Color and LEDs, February 2014
lESNJ, LED Luminaires: Choosing Wisely, February 2014
NFMT-East, LED Lighting -Less Secrets: More Surprises, March 2014
Pacific Gas & Electric Workshop. LED Lighting: Technology & Applications,
March 2014
NAILD, LED Lighting Has Arrived - Now What?, April 2014
GrayBar, LED Lighting Basics, April 2014
Virginia Energy Purchasing Governmental Association, LED Lighting:
Choosing Wisely Amidst the Confusion, May 2014
Lightfair, LED 101, June 2014
NeoCon, New Features, New Cautions When Lighting Facilities With LEDs June
2014
AIA (National Conference), Lighting at a Crossroads, June 2014
lES (Regional), LED Luminaires: Choosing Wisely. July 2014
Design Lights Consortium. Solid-State Lighting, July 2014
20 I r a g c
USGBC (Kentucky Chapter), What You Need to Know About LED Lighting,
August 2014
Ameren (Webinar), LED Luminaires: Choosing Wisely, September 2014
Boston Lights, LED Lighting: Managing the Risk, September 2014
LightShow South, The Second Tsunami Coming to the Lighting Industry,
September 2014
NECA, LEDs and Lighting Controls: The Second Tsunami, September 2014
WEEC, LEDs and Lighting Controls: Amazing Features and Complex Issues,
October 2014
NFMT-West. LED Lighting -Less Secrets: More Surprises. October 2014
NALMCO, Troubleshooting Before You Get Into Trouble, October 2014
LED Specifier Summit, The LED Revolution Is Over- Now What? October
2014
Architecture Boston Expo, What Goes Wrong With LED Lighting and Why,
October 2014
ArchEx, LED Lighting: Color. Control, Consequences, November 2014
Michigan Advanced Lighting Conference, Manufacturing Round Two: LEDs
and Lighting Controls Merge, November 2014
NFMT, How to Select the Right LED Products for Your Facility (Webinar),
January 2015
NAILD, LED Lighting for People (Webinar), February 2015
NFMT-East. An Introduction to OLEDs: The Other Solid-State Lighting
Technology. March 2015
ElectroExpo, What You Must Know About LED Lighting, March 2015
AEE (Washington DC Chapter). LED Lighting: Choosing Wisely Amidst the
Confusion, April 2015
lES (NJ Chapter), An Introduction to OLEDs: The Other Solid-State Lighting
Technology, April 2015
NAILD. LEDs and Lighting Controls: What it can Mean for Your Business. April
2015
CxEnergy, Why Things Go Wrong with LED Lighting, April 2015
Lightfair, LED 101 and a Little More. May 2015
AEE EMC, LED Lighting: Color, Control and Consequences, June 2015
NeoCon-15, LED Lighting and the Second Tsunami. June 2015
BOMA, LEDs and Lighting Controls: A Combination of Promise and Risk, June
2015
DLC-15, SSL-101: New Rules for Lighting. August 2015
21 I Page
AEE WEEC, People-The Least Discussed Element of LED Economics, October
2015
NECA-15, OLEDs: An Introduction to the Other SolidState Lighting Technology,
October 2015
AIA-Ohio Regional Conference, The Other Solid-State Lighting Technology:
Comparing LEDs and OLEDs, October 2015
LightShow West-15, OLEDs: The “Other" Solid-State Lighting Technology,
October 2015
NFMT Orlando. An Introduction to OLEDs - The Other Solid-State Lighting
Technology, October 2015
Michigan Advanced Lighting Conference, The Revolution of SSL
Manufacturing, October 2015
ArchEx-15, OLEDs - The Other Solid-State Lighting Technology. November
2015
Pacific Gas & Electric Workshop, LED Lighting: Technology, Applications and
Specifications, November 2015
LED Specifier Summit-15, LED Economics: The Cost of Lighting for People,
November 2015
USGBC-Nevada Chapter, What You Need to Know About LED Lighting.
January 2016
Better Buildings by Design. An Introduction to OLEDs: The Other Solid-State
Lighting Technology, February 2016
lES (NJ Chapter), LED Lighting and the Second Tsunami, February 2016
NFMT-East. LEDs and Lighting Controls: Exciting Future and Some Cautions,
March 2016
NALMCO, An Introduction to OLEDs: The Other Solid-State Lighting
Technology, April 2016
NAILD, Predicting Performance of LED Products, April 2016
CxEnergy, OLEDs - The Other Solid-State Lighting Technology, April 2016
Lightfair, LED/SSL 101 and a Lot More. April 2016
High Performance Buildings. LEDs. Lighting Controls and the Economics of
People. May 2016
US Green Buildings Council (AZ Chapter), What You Need to Know About
LED Lighting, June 2016
NAESCO, LEDs and the Economics of People. June 2016
NeoCon, OLEDs: The Other Solid-State Lighting Technology, June 2016
US Department of Agriculture (webinar), LEDs and Lighting Controls: Things
to Watch Out For, July 2016
22 I P a g c
AIA-Kentucky, Time to Relearn Everything About Lighting, September 2016
World Energy Engineering Congress, Simplicity - The Key to Successful
Solid-State Lighting and Control Systems. October 2016
International Facilities Management Association, OLEDs- What You Should
Know About the Other Solid-State Lighting Technology. October 2016
National Electrical Contractors Association, How the Second Lighting
Tsunami Will Change Your Business. October 2016
International Association of Lighting Management Companies (Fail), LEDs
and Lighting Controls: The Second Tsunami Coming to the Industry. October
2016
National Facilities Management Technologies (Webinar), How Combining
LEDs and Lighting Controls Will Change Lighting Forever. October 2016
Boston Lights, Beyond LEDs - Prepare for the Second Tsunami in Lighting,
September 2016
National Facilities Management Technologies (Fall), November 2016
ArchEx, LEDs and Lighting Controls: The Second Tsunami in Lighting,
November 2016
LED Specifier Summit. LEDs and Lighting Controls: Prepare for the Second
Tsunami in Lighting, November 2016
NFMT (East) 17, A Simple Guide to Solid-State Lighting Standards, March 2017
Lightfair-NYC Special Seminar, LEDs and the Economics of People, A Simple
Guide to Solid-State Lighting Standards, March 2017
NECA (MN Chapter). What You Don't Know About LED Lighting, March 2017
Emerging Technologies Summit, Solid-State Lighting: Where We Are and
Where We're Going. April 2017
Lightfair-17, LED/SSL 101 - And a Whole Lot More (Workshop). May 2017
Lightfair-17, The Future of Lighting (Seminar), May 2017
High Performance Buildings, What Goes Wrong with LED Lighting and Why,
May 2017
NFPA, Visual Notification Appliances Using LED Technology, June 2017
PGE-17, The Future of Lighting and Controls, June 2017
NeoCon-17, The Future of Lighting, June 2017
WEEC-17. Education and Complexity: Avoiding a Failing Grade for your Smart
Buildings. September 2017
LightShow West-17, Solid-State Lighting Standards  -How Well Do They
Predict Product Performance. October 2017
ArchEx-17, How Lighting Will Be Used in the Future. November 2017
NFMT Orlando-17, The Future of Lighting, November 2017
23 t P a g c
LED Specifier Summit-17, How Lighting Will be Used in the Future, November
2017
Better Buildings by Design-18, The Future of Lighting, February 2018
NAILD-18, The Lighting industry; Today's Landscape and Tomorrow's War for
the Ceiling. February 2018
ElectroExpo-18, The Future of Lighting, March 2018
NFMT-18, The Role of Lighting in Tomorrow’s Facilities, March 2018
Hawaii Energy-18, Solid-State Lighting and Lighting Controls Workshop for
Architects and Design Professionals. (2 days) March 2018
NeoCon-18, Can LED Standards Predict Product Performance in the Field, June
2018
Lightfair-18, Solid-State Lighting 101, May 2018
Boston Lights-18, The Future of the Lighting Industry, November 2018
NECA (Chicago Chapter)-19, Tomorrow’s Lighting Industry: What You Need to
Know to Thrive. January 2019
Lightfair-19, LEDs and Lighting Controls 101, May 2019
Note: Presentations in blue given on behalf of the US Department of Energy
24 i P a g e
FEE RATES
Jack Curran <jcurran9ledtransformations.com>
Thursday, October 03, 2019 4:38 PM
Bnan Bilberry
Resume. Talks, Fees
JohnWCurran-Resume-17,pdf; Partial Ust of Talks(12-31*171.pdf
From:
Sent
To:
Subject
Attachments:
Hi Brian,
Good talking with you today. Attached please find my resume and a partial list of presentations that I have
given over the past 9 years. Two notes on the presentations:
1) My contract with the Department of Energy ended in the spring of last year when the new
administration decided they were no longer interested in education.
2) The list does not include any presentations that I have given for companies that are not open to the
public (I consider them confidential).
My fee rates are as follows:
Office Activities (research, report writing, reviewing documents, phone calls, client meetings, etc.)
$350/hr
Depositions, Trial Testimony
$425/hf
I do not charge for travel time, however, I have minimum charges for time spent away from the office:
for meetings requiring travel less than 50 miles from my home 4 hours or actual meeting lime, whichever
is greater
For meeting requiring travel more than 50 miles or air travel
is greater
8 hours or actual meeting time, whichever
I also do not add any markup on travel expenses. Air travel is out of Savannah Airport. Mileage is at the IRS
rate ($0.58/mile for 2019).
25 1 P a g e
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE IN EXPERT WITNESS DEPOSITIONS
1) On December 12, 2008 I was deposed as the plaintiff s Expert Witness in a patent
infringement case brought in the US District Court Western District of Wisconsin
(Case 08-CV-220). The case, which involved aquarium LED lighting, was
brought by Orbital Tech Corporation against PFO Lighting. Bridget Haydon who
was the primary contact for this case is a Partner at the firm Dorsey & Whitney.
Case did not go to trial as the defendant declared bankruptcy.
2) On July 19, 2018 I was deposed, as the plaintiffs Expert Witness, in a patent
infringement case brought in the US District Court Norther District of Illinois,
Eastern Division (Civil Action No. I :l7-CV-07359) The case which involved
LED light bulb technology was brought by CAO Group against Light Efficient
Design. Todd G. Vare who was the primary contact for this case is a Partner at
the firm Barnes & Thornburg. I have been CAO's technical expert through at
least three sets of attorneys. I do not know the status of the case presently.
26 I P a g e
Count^Clerk
RCCKIVEU
^ JW 20 PH f 2#
OFFiSp OP the
GOUNtV CLERK
From;
Sent:
EVERT CRAFT <epcraft@comcast.net>
Monday, June 20, 2022 4:18 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from epcraft@comcast.net. Learn why this is important
support of both Kelly King’s Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown’s abuses in
Napili and Tamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center
instead.
This monster house is an outrage. I bought a condo at Napili Bay because I love the informal
Hawaiian atmosphere of this area, with no high-rise ostentatious buildings. This one building defies
everything I love about Napili. The developers kept working on the construction even though they
knew it violated code and knew that neighbors were upset. I know, 1 watched. It does not fit and never
should have been approved!
Priscilla Craft
Homeowner
Unit H261, Napili Shores
1
WPCEIVEDCount^Clerk
an JUH2I M »3iFrom:
Sent:
Colleen Curran <ccurran27@sbcglobal.net>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:21 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
QFfl0€ Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from ccurran27@sbcglobal.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
1
receivedCount^^CleH<
From:
Sent: an JUN 20 PH > 33Greg Friedman <ghfriedman61@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:13 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
OFFlSe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ghfriedman61@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Greg Friedman
1
Count^Clerk
RECEIVED
JUN2I m »3I
From:
Sent:
Diana George <dianaggeorge@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:26 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dianaggeorge@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Thank you for listening.
1 support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
1
Count^Clerk RiiCteivsn
nin JUN 20 PH \- 40
From:
Sent:
Tom Gianneschi <ragtagsam@icloud.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 12:43 PM
County Clerk
County Council Meeting June 21, 2022 Agenda K Committee^pi^|t^liQ4te1\f^ign,Resilience and Environment Committee Bill 21 Outdoor Ligl^i^yfyjYY CLEWK
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ragtagsam@icloud.com. Learn why this is important
Council Members;
1 want to express my relief that council is considering limiting LED lighting. I feel the ecological concerns are real and for
that purpose alone 1 hope you will agree with the experts and vote passage on first reading. However, I would like to
share my recent experience that goes beyond my concerns for our relentless damage to our environment.
There have been two instances in the last 6 months on my street where neighbors who were upset with families living
next to them used LED lighting as a nuisance to invade their privacy and deliberately cause discomfort. They purchased
and installed LED lighting that they then directed at their neighbors homes so that it would be bright in their house
during sleeping hours. One case was a motion sensor arrangement triggered by street traffic to create  aflashing effect
throughout the night. They used the existing exemptions as a means to create a serious nuisance to their neighbors and
a road safety issue for passing motorists. My County Service Request 22-0000156 that inquired about the legality of this
informed me of the current exemption for lighting that protects this unsafe and annoying behavior. At the time I
thought how far out of date the current regulations are for LED technology.
If this lighting can be used for purposes like the above it doesn't take much imagination to see other unwanted ideas. A
strong enough LED light can literally kill plants. If I'm unhappy with my neighbor I can buy a big bright LED light on
Amazon, under the guise of security duct tape it to my home or fence, shine it every night on my neighbors landscape
and kill some of it claiming its all perfectly legal.
This lighting technology is so bright it begs regulation that is much more stringent than what we have been accustomed
to. The ecological concerns are real but there are real human concerns as well.
Please pass Bill 21 on first reading.
Thank you
Thomas Gianneschi
1
received
M JUN20 W > 18 HAWAI'l HOTELJune 20. 2022 A I I. I A N C L
0FFl©£ OF THE
COUNTY GLERK
Gerard C. Gibson
President
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building
200 South High Street, 8th Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: Hawaii Hotel Alliance Opposition to Bill 21, CDl (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Members of the County Council,
Mahalo for this opportunity to provide testimony in advance of the County Council’s June 21, 2022
meeting. Maui’s lodging industry is deeply committed to its stewardship role for the local environment—
including the protection of Hawaii’s native seabird species—but if enacted Bill 21, CDl’s outdoor
lighting fixture requirements would impose impractical, ambiguous and unsafe requirements on
businesses (and residents) throughout the County which run counter to the guidance of state and federal
agency experts in this space.
For the reasons our testimony will expand upon below, the Hawaii Hotel Alliance must regretfully
oppose Bill 21, CDl.
Bill 21. CDl Conflicts with Prevailing Expert Opinion:
State and federal agencies with expertise on what constitutes appropriate measures to protect endangered
seabirds have developed corresponding light minimization guidelines. Importantly, these guidelines were
included in Appendix E to the Kauai Seabird Habitat Conservation Plan (KSHCP, or Plan)'—a Plan
prepared in 2020 by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the Hawaii Department of Land
and Natural Resources (DLNR). This Appendix includes requirements relating to the placement, angling
and shielding of lights, as well as other key lighting mitigation measures. At the time the KSHCP was
prepared, several groups asked the agencies to also impose light spectrum requirements similar to those
found in Bill 21, CDL It is important to underscore the experts at these agencies declined to do so.
Bill 21. CDl Ignores Established Safety Parameters:
The wellbeing of our lodging guests and employees alike is of the utmost importance, and something that
should not be unduly compromised in anything adopted by the County via Bill 21, CDL There are human
safety benefits of lights with shorter wavelengths, including that they create greater contrast and enhance
^ See Attachment, "KSHCP Appendix E.
9359103.1
G
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chaifi I  ^ 0*^ HiiL
Maui County Council
Page 2 —  -tr .
●  \
■'d. Y!'/C
peripheral vision—yet Bill 21, CDl does not properly account for this critical dynamic. Conversely,
recognition of human safety needs is present within state and federal agency light minimization guidelines
for protecting endangered seabirds, and the KSHCP itself requires appropriate lighting level stipulations
for particular light functions—recognizing the standards prepared by the Illuminating Engineering
Society of North America (lESNA). More specifically, the lESNA standards provide light level
recommendations for several applications, including parking lots, walkways and roads—again, something
for which Bill 21, CDl does not properly account. The County should not be requiring light levels be less
than these recognized and patterned illumination standards for human safety, which Bill 21, CDl would
concerningly do.
Exacerbating these concerns is the fact that Bill 21, CDl would newly apply its provisions to
"[tjemporary hotel and condominium beach security lighting” and ”[sjafety and security lighting for
water features, ” which were previously exempt in broad scope. This could increase safety hazards for
hotel guests and make it impossible for security staff to implement safety or security lighting at their
hotels and resorts, even temporarily to resolve pressing safety matters.
Bill 21, CDl Contains Unworkable. Unsubstantiated Provisions:
A critical requirement within Bill 21, CDl would be that all outdoor lighting fixtures must "limit short
wavelength content to no more than two percent of blue light content ” (with "blue light content ” defined
as "the ratio of the amount of energy emitted by the outdoor light fi xture between 400 and 500 nm divided
by the amount of energy between 400 and 700 nm ”). Such a standard would be impossible for most—if
not all—residents and businesses to adhere to.
The short wavelength content measurement specified in Bill 21, CDl is not something that is typically
provided by light bulb and fixture manufacturers, nor is it included on the labels for their products, so one
would be unable to determine if new lights they purchase effectively comply with the law. Most
businesses and residents lack the equipment and expertise that would be necessary to perform the
calculations necessary to determine compliance, all while state and federal agencies have yet to determine
if there is scientific support to suggest this requirement is beneficial for seabirds. State and federal
agencies knowledgeable about endangered seabird protection have not recommended adopting this for all
outdoor lighting, which means Bill 21, CDl is again a troubling outlier.
Moreover, requiring all (except neon) outdoor lights to be filtered light emitting diode bulbs (LEDs) is
concerning on added grounds, as LED filters are not commonly used and are not widely available. Per the
County’s Deputy Corporation Counsel,^ there is only one vendor who arguably sells such filters, yet
every outdoor light in the County would require one—presenting cost trepidations, supply anxieties, and
even worries over such a product voiding light manufacturer warranties given this alteration of intended
use. All for a practice outside of what experts would constitute as necessary.
Further, Bill 21, CDl would take effect immediately for all new or newly replaced lighting fixtures, and
provide only a three-year grace period for existing fixtures. Given the numerous compliance challenges
present, this would create immediate difficulties for businesses such as hotels and resorts with large
^ See Memorandum, "Ordinance on Protecting Seabirds from Outdoor Lighting Bill No. 21 CDl (2022)" (May 24,
2022).
Page 2 of 3
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Page 3
numbers of outdoor lighting fixtures. And even a three-year period may not be enough time to comply,
particularly with stipulations like those for blue light content and filtering that are stymied by present
manufacturer specifications and availabilities.
Concluding Remarks:
In sum, the lodging industry on Maui is steadfastly committed to protecting Hawaii’s native seabird
species, including by minimizing lighting. When one minimizes lighting though, it is also important that
human safety—namely the safety of our guests and employees—is not compromised, especially with
impractical and burdensome requirements that do not hold demonstrated, expert-validated benefits.
Bill 21, CDl is simply not a sensible approach to the important protection of Hawaii’s native
seabirds, especially given that alternative options are available. One logical option would be for Maui
to adopt requirements similar to those included in the KSHCP’s Appendix E, which reflects mindful
policies established by subject-matter experts from USFWS and DLNR. Another option would be to
impose a correlated color temperature requirement, as the State imposes on its own agencies (this
measurement is typically included on LED light bulb labels).^ Any new requirements should also
preserve existing exemptions and allow enough lead time for compliance.
For the many reasons articulated in our testimony, the Hawaii Hotel Alliance urges the County
Council to reject Bill 21, CDl and instead pursue an alternative conservation pathway. Without
such action, the risks and harms brought about by Bill 21, GDI’s requirements—to residents, businesses,
guests and more—will greatly exceed any benefit that may possibly be attained.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
5Gerard C. Gibson
President
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
^ See Hawaii Revised Statutes Section 201-8.5.
Page 3 of 3
APPENDIX E: Guidelines for Adjusting Lighting at Facilities
1. Guidelines for Adjusting Lighting at Facilities
This appendix provides detailed guidelines to inform minimization measures that can be
customized to address an array of possible lighting issues at Participant facilities. A lighting
minimization plan to achieve the maximum extent practicable will be included in each
Participant PIP.
These guidelines represent best available science at the time of KSHCP permit issuance. Over
the life the plan, likely new information and new technologies will be available, and this
appendix may be updated accordingly.
Not all lighting guidelines are appropriate for all types of facilities. Some represent long term,
infrastructure solutions, and others may be implemented on a seasonal basis.
1.1. Deactivate Non-Essential Lights
Prioritization of seabird and honu light attraction minimization measures involves evaluating
light needs to determine if non-essential lights can be deactivated during the seabird fallout
season (September 15 to December 15) and turtle nesting season (May 15-December 15).
Deactivating the lights avoids the potential for light attraction that those lights could otherwise
cause. Turning off a subset of lights, both unshielded and shielded, during the fallout season
(September 15 to December 15) can assist with minimizing the risk of seabird light attraction, if
those lights are not necessary. In their PIPs, Applicants must provide rationale for any facility
lights that cannot be deactivated during seabird fallout season, and detail what other
minimization practices will be implemented on lights that will remain illuminated. The
regulatory agencies will review the evaluation and justification as provided in applicant PIPs.
Similarly, turning out lights that shine directly on beaches during the turtle nesting season (May
15-December 15) can prevent hatchling disorientation. Avoid use of the following lamp styles
on beachside or shore perpendicular to sides of a structure; private balcony lights, up lights;
decorative lighting, not necessary for human safety or security; pond lights; and beach lighting.
Timers or other similar devices should be used to ensure the selected lights remain off during
the turtle nesting season. This measure may require the installation of independent light
switches. Conversely, to prevent accidental activation, light fixtures can be removed for lights
that will no longer be needed at a facility.
1.2. Install Full Cut-off Light Fixtures
A full cut-off fixture refers to a light fixture which that does not shine light above a 90 degree
horizontal plane. For lights necessary to be activated, full cut-off fixtures provide an effective
measure to achieve light minimization because they prevent light from shining directly upwai J.
These types of lights house the light bulb up within the fixture so that no bulb protrudes below
(Figure 1). Such fixtures must be mounted at appropriate angle so they point directly down to
the ground. Many light manufacturers provide light fixture information along with the light
specifications to indicate if a fixture is a full cut-off design. The International Dark Sky
Association (www.darksky.org) is a good source for information on full cut-off lights and
provides additional references to light engineering resources and light manufactures.
Figure 1: Examples of full cut-off light fixtures. Source: www.darkskv.orR.
Along shorelines, exterior fixtures on the seaward (makai) and the shore perpendicular sides of
the building (and on the landward side of the building if they are visible from the beach) should
be down-lit fixtures, fully shielded and full cut-off, louvered, or recessed fixtures that do not
have reflective inner surfaces. These fixtures should use low wattage bulbs (e.g.,< 50w). All
exterior fixtures on the landward (mauka) side of the building should be directed downward
only (Witherington & Martin 2003).
1.3. Shielding Light Fixtures
This minimization measure aims to achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off light
fixture by installing a shield, visor, hood or similar on an existing light fixture to prevent light
from shining upward and reducing trespass. In addition to the shielding, to achieve the
functional equivalent of a full cut-off fixture,  alight fixture should be adjusted so that it points
directly down perpendicular to the ground to create a level, horizontal plane between the
fixture and the ground, and have the bulb housed within the light fixture (Figures 2 & 3). Reed
et al. (1985) suggest that in areas where other light sources are rare, the shielding of principal
lights would likely have a larger effect in decreasing seabird light attraction.
Figure 2: Installation of an appropriately sized floodlight shield. Source: www.darkskv.org.
Shielded Floodlight
.oJC
Ol
o
Tack Area
Standard Floodlight
r r'Waste Light, Light Trespass
Ioi
‘Z
Task Area Z
Figure 3: Before and after effects of shielding and light management designed to minimize light
attraction risk to seabirds and to decrease light pollution. Source: www.darkskv.org.
1.4. Angle Lights Downward
Angling and repositioning lights presents a potential alternative to shielding or replacing light
fixtures and may be sufficient to make lights fully cut-off and eliminate light shining horizontally
and vertically (Figure 4). To achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off fixture, a light
fixture should be adjusted so that It points directly down perpendicular to the ground to create
a level, horizontal plane between the fixture and the ground, and have the bulb housed within
the light fixture. Tree strap downlights may be used to minimize seabird light attraction unless
turtles may be present on the adjacent beach.
Figure 1-: (a) Wall mount cylinder down-light, (b) bollards with downward-directed louvers, and (c)
sign lights angled downward. From
http://mvfwc.com/media/418417/SeaTurtle LightingGuidelines.pdf (FWC 2011).
1.5. Place Lights Under Eaves
Light fixtures placed under building eaves can achieve the functional equivalent of a full cut-off
fixture. The architectural eave acts as shield to prevent light from shining directly upward.
1.6. Shift Lighting According to the Moon Phase
This minimization measure addresses lighting for which the need, or purpose, for the lighting
can be shifted in timing each year to coincide with the moon phase. Because a reduction in
light attraction has been correlated with the full phase of the moon {Reed et al. 1985; Telfer et
al. 1987) lights for essential functions, and for which that function can be shifted in timing,
should coincide with the full phase of the moon and avoid the dark phase of the moon. It is
important to note that a full moon that is obscured by heavy cloud cover could simulate the
dark phase of the moon. By not activating those lights during the dark phase of the moon the
effect of those lights is reduced. Examples of activities that could be minimized with this
measure include scheduling of night time events, such as festivals or sporting events.
1.7. Install Motion Sensors for Motion-activated Lighting
Motion sensors switch lights on only when triggered, thereby limiting the time that the light
stays on and reducing its potential for seabird light attraction. If a sensor light is required for
security purposes, the light equipped with the sensor should be at low light levels. For
example. Light Emitting Diode (LED) streetlights and parking lot lights can be activated when
needed and dim when no activity is detected nearby. However for those fixtures, full cut-off
designs or the functional equivalents are recommended because of the possibility of light
attraction occurring when the motion-sensor light is activated or in the event that the motion
sensor equipment malfunctions and the light remains on.
Where motion sensors are Impractical (eg at sporting events), stadium lights should be turned
off as soon as the public leaves the stadium.
1.8. Decrease Lighting Levels
This measure addresses lowering light intensity levels (e.g., measured in lumens) while still
meeting the need to safely complete tasks and serve the purpose of the light. Guidance on
standards for the appropriate lighting level for  aparticular light function should be followed as
provided by the appropriate agency or professional and technical organization. For example
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (lESNA) provides recommendations for
light levels for several applications including parking lots, walkways, and roads. In addition
individual entities may have standards and best practices for lighting needs.
For many applications where lighting is needed, brighter lighting may not always provide the
best lighting for the needed function. It is often the case where reduced lighting levels can
provide for the needed function of the lighting. For example, for security purposes overly
bright lights tend to create blind spots, or very dark shadows, outside the lit area that preclude
effective visibility. Well placed, but reduced lighting can provide for more effective security.
Therefore, when Participants seek to enhance onsite visibility for security, while reducing risk to
seabirds, the appropriate reduction of light levels (along with shielding and re-angling lights)
forms a starting point to accomplish both purposes.
1.9. Decrease Visibility of Interior Lights
Facilities with large and/or numerous windows, tall building profiles, or large glass facades may
also pose a risk of light attraction to Covered Seabirds on Kaua'i. The following measures are
based, in part, on efforts in cities in Canada and the mainland USA to decrease harmful effects
of buildings on birds and apply to seabirds in that they can decrease the amount of light
escaping from within buildings (City of Toronto 2007; Evans Ogden 2002):
Install screens or shades over large windows that are lowered nightly during the fallout
season;
Modify buildings and decrease or eliminate light glow from within a facility;
Create glass opacity to prevent the escape of internal light. Tinted glass or film with a
visible light transmittance value of 45 percent or less should be applied to all windows
and doors within line of sight of the beach;
Install physical screens outside a building;
Install landscaping in front of large windows;
Close ail window blinds after daylight hours until sunrise;
Stagger the operation of lights in the evening or morning hours so that not all lights ●● re
turned on at once; and
Maximize the number of offices or indoor rooms that turn off all lights after sunset
● Place reminder notices on switches to turn out lights or draw curtains/blinds in
oceanfront rooms. This should include coastal areas that are on the perpendicular sides
of the structure;
Turn off room and lanai lighting that are not needed;
Relocate moveable lamps away from windows that are visible from the beach;
and
a.
b.
Close opaque curtains or blinds after dark to block inside light from shining
outside.
c.
1.10. Use Light-less Technologies
Where conditions and facility needs permit, technologies that do not use light, such as closed-
circuit television (CCT) with infrared illuminators, may be effectively employed to "see" at night
thus enabling some of the lights to be turned off. For example, any fenced areas or the dark
sides of facilities can be monitored with CCT so that lights do not need to be used or installed.
1.11. Plant Vegetation Around Lights to Reduce Light Visibility
Trees and shrubs can be planted so that they over-arch lights or shield side visibility of lights
along the coast or along a ridge, for example. Whether the lights are mounted on 20-foot poles,
walkways, or within landscaped areas, having adjacent or overarching vegetation would further
reduce the risk of seabird light attraction that any residual light scatter may pose. Long-term
planning and maintenance of screening vegetation is encouraged, where appropriate to the
uses and needs of the affected lights.
1.12. Lower Height of Lights
Light that is low in height has potential to reduce the effect of light attraction because lower
lights may be less visible to passing seabirds. Installing ground-level lighting, such as along
walkways, and reducing pole height can decrease light waste and trespass.
1.13. Use Longer Light Wavelengths
In coastal areas, use of acceptable lights such as: LPS 18w, 35w, red, orange or amber LEDs
(true red, orange or amber diodes, but not filters), true red neon, and other lighting sources
that produce light wavelengths of 560 nm or longer (Witherington et al. 2014). Long
wavelength lights, e.g., those that produce light that measures greater than 560 nanometers on
a spectroscope, are required for all construction visible from and adjacent to sea turtle nesting
beaches. Turtles are most sensitive to short wavelengths of light, probably because they live in
a marine environment that filters out long wavelengths. Green turtles are least attracted to
longer wavelength light in the yellow-orange to red end of the spectrum (630 to 700 nm)
(Witherington and Martin 2000). In the absence of other light sources, however, turtles may
still be attracted to long wavelength light.
Filters designed to exclude transmission of short wavelengths (<570nm) can be fitted to high
pressure sodium (HPS) vapor lights. Such filters have been found to be effective at avoiding
disruption of nesting females (Salmon, 2006) but even filtered HPS light has been found to
attract hatchlings, although not as strongly as unfiltered HPS lights (Sella et al, 2006). Filtering
alone is thus not sufficient to avoid attraction and disruption of hatchling orientation. Bright
white light fixtures, such as metal halide, halogen, fluorescent, mercury vapor and incandescent
lamps, are not approved for beachside or shore perpendicular sides of a structure. Limited use
of shorter wavelength lights may be approved in areas where direct and indirect light or glow
could not possibly be visible from the beach due to installation of opaque "light fencing" (see
below).
Count^CIerk
From:
Sent:
Patricia Inouye <pcinouye@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:47 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from pcinouye@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
For over 30 years, I have been visiting Maui and staying at Napili Sunset, i love Napili Bay because of the moratorium on
building taller than 2 stories.
I am appalled that Greg Brown's building was allowed to be built. Tear it down because of the illegal manner that he
gained permits.
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Patricia Inouye
2306 Shire Lane
Davis, CA 95616
Patsy Inouye
^ GO-n
c 2 moN>
mo-<
Oo 3 <■n
a
1
received
JUN2I m 7-.no
From:
Sent:
Sandi loakimi <sioakimi@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 8:37 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
offish of theiOUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from sioakimi@gmaiLcom. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Mahalo for your consideration.
Sandi ioakimi
808.283.6216
Kihei
1
Count^£lei^ RECEIV6D
miM2\ nn^-siFrom:
Sent:
ANDREW ISODA <nokaoi1969@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 12:38 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
€0UNTY clerk
You don’t often get email from nokaoil969@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
1
County Clerk RPPFIVPn
From:
Sent:
Geri K <tutuirish808@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:20 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
mM2\ W »3t
To:
Subject: OFFIOiE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from tutuirish808@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
mi ^21 AH 7=‘10
From:
Sent:
Nachum Kaplan <nachummaui(o)gmaiLcom>
Monday, June 20, 2022 6:42 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
OrFIOE OF THE
QOUNtY CLERK
You don't often get email from nachummaui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official Investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
Tara S King <taradastarra@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 3:28 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from taradastarra@gmaiLcom. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead. Tara S King
no 7^o mz Ots>-4* mo-<
©O <3*n
rnm
71 m
W Ow
1
County Clerk
From: Joseph Kohn MD <outlook_945BCBF227049F41@outlook.com> on behalf of Joseph
Kohn MD <Joseph@WeAreOne.cc>
Monday, June 20, 2022 3:32 PM
County Clerk; Tamara A. Paltin
STRONGLY SUPPORT PROPOSED INQUIRY INTO GREG BROWN  &Hawaiian Cultural
Center
Sent:
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from joseph@weareone.cc. Learn why this is important
Aloha Kakou
Strongly support Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown, and Tamara Paltin's
Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Mahalo nui,
Joseph Kohn MD
Founder, We Are One, Inc. - www.WeAreOne.ee - WAO
493 Pio Dr Apt 209
Wailuku, Hi 96793-2641
808-359-6605
Joseph@WeAreOne.ee
www.WeAreOne.ee
O Q
O -nctl
mnH' K>-< O moo 3 <m -4 mw o
1
RECEIVED
mM2\ AH 7i«IO
From:
Sent:
Lawsons <mylawsonhome@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 6:08 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
OrFhSe OF THE
[You don't often get email from myiawsonhome(5)gmail.com. Learn why this is important alOUNTY CLERK
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses. in.Napili and Tamara . ,
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
R Carolyn W Lawson
Sent from my iPad
1
RECEIVED
2127 JUN2I AR 7:40
From:
Sent:
Christina Levang <Ieva0748@pacificu.edu>
Monday, June 20, 2022 10:39 PM
County Clerk
Bill 21 Outdoor Lighting Ordinance \A/ritten Testimony
To:
Subject:
OFFICE ©F THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don’t often get email from Ieva0748@pacificu.edu. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
'.I
1 am writing to testify in support for Bill 21 scheduled to be discussed tomorrow at 9am.
My name is Christina Levang. I was raised in Kihei. From the time when I was a child, just 20 years, till now, both the
silence and the darkness have gradually been taken. The peace and quiet at night was once normal but now it seems
to be a rarity. At the hotel, where I work, there is a noise ordinance that begins at 10pm. For the party it may be
conflicting, but for most, including not only the guests but also myself, I am very thankful it is in place. Like the
silence that is being protected, I am in hope that the dark night sky be protected as well and Bill 21 ensures that. We
all are craving more peace these days maybe more than ever before and less artificial light is a good place to begin. It
is our birth right and for us to protect what is natural already says how far we have come... But I believe this Bill is a
move in the right direction. With that said, I am in full support of the outdoor lighting ordinance. For the people and
for the seabirds. We are one.
Thank you for reading,
Christina Levang
Grounds and Maintenance at Maui Nui Botanical Garden
Sales Clerk and Herbalist at Dragon's Den Herb Shop
Banquet Server at Four Seasons
Sent from Mail for Windows
1
RECEIVED
ZO?? JUH20 AH » 13
H
OFflQE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Buy U'Vid/BeyCi<^]^(yu^yuiAXtCc-Y\/
PO Box 10823
Lahaina, HI 96761
June 16, 2022
Maui County Councilpersons and Chair Lee:To:
Reaching out to reiterate the Napili community concerns regarding the building currently
under construction at the corner of Lower Honoapi’ilani Road and Hui Drive, in Napili, Maui,
aka Napili Beach House.
After more thorough review of the public documents regarding this structure, Napili Bay
and Beach Foundation has found that Maui County Planning Department’s
SMA Minor Exemption permit SMS 2019/0082, issued 4/10/2019 for a single family
dwelling at 5385 Lower Honoapi’ilani Road, TMK 2-4-3-002:057-000 did not accurately
describe the structure that was to be built according to plans. The estimated value was
also much more than allowed for by an SMA Minor Exemption. Further, the 2021 Maui
County Parcel Information indicates the tax class for this parcel as a "Short Term Rental’’, not
a single family dwelling. Please see the next page of this submission for a summary of the
facts found in process and outcomes as of Summer, 2021.
For the above reasons, and because the structure ‘does not fit' size and style of The Napili
Civic Improvement District Ordinance, Bill No. 13(1964, as revised and codified. Chapter
19.60) and most importantly for reasons of increased environmental impacts of a large
structure and hard surfaces on runoff to Napili Bay, Napili Bay and Beach Foundation, Inc.
respectfully challenges this building as it is now being built (height and style), and for the
uses now on shown on public records for Short Term Rental occupancy.
Sincerely,
for Napili Bay and Beach Foundation, Inc.
None Aluli, SecretaryGregg Nelson, Vice-PresidentPat B. Lindquist, President
TanoTaitano, DirectorJamie Lung-Ke’o, DirectorNorm Runyan, Director
.1^
The Brown House at Napili - Just the Facts
11 HA UC Wil rrflV
■ Structure -
Y', ●!« ,
8 labelled bedrooms with adjoining baths
2 "Media rooms" and 2 "Dens” which have ensuite walk in closets and
bathrooms,
o  suite separated from rest of house by hallway doors. One set of plans
shows
o a king bed in the floorplan of one of these rooms, they can all be used as
o Master bedroom suites => totalling 12 bedrooms.
Floorplan shows two virtually identical structures divided by a lobby and
elevator/stairs:
o 2 kitchens, 2 ‘great rooms’, 2 powder rooms, 1 laundry closet
8 parking places on property*
4 parking places on Hui Drive, designated as public beach parking
2 pools and spas - one at ground level, one on roof top
Total height - 45 ft.
Each story has a ceiling height of 16 ft.
Roof top has a pool, spa, built in BBQ kitchen area, with lanai spaces
II. Process to Permits
SMA granted in April, 2019 as an SMA5 => exempt from public notification and
comments. (SMS 2019/0082 issued on 4/10/19 for single family residence with
valuation of $1,500,000.)
Granted SMA Minor exemption based on designation as a single family
residence, value less than $500,000.00. Structure is designated several other
places as main residence.
Building permit issued in May, 2020, designated as apartment (5/19/20 B20200448)
gives permit amount of $2,000,000, plus $150,000.00 for pool.)
Maui County Tax parcel designation in 2021 is ‘Short Term Rental’ (Parcel Number
430020570000.)
Napili Civic Improvement District Ordinance ((1964, as revised and codified.
Chapter 19.60) parameters not followed:
not to exceed 2 stories in height
must retain style of other buildings in the district (Construction and
architectural styling of buildings and structures shall be in conformance
with present developments in the Napili Bay civic improvement district)
Building permits issued for structure valued at $2,000,000.00
. Neighbors lodge challenges with Maui County Planning & DPW in March/Aoril 2021
2
 SECgiiVgp
^ M 20 PK><T5
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
AY <mauigirrl808@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 3:37 PM
County Clerk
Greg Brown - Napili
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from mauigirrl808@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County,
Why did you allow this person to build an eye sore in Napili?
If you allow the arrivals of these ugly McMansions, you will destroy & ruin the beauty of this island, Napili.
Investors & their hired contractors have destroyed many areas of the islands due to excessive oversized buildings they
call 2nd homes.
Which sit empty and are used for tax write offs for these multi-millionaires.
What do you benefit from this???!
Don't be fooled or naive...these people are not thinking of Maui or the local community...they will say ANYTHING to get
you to believe that they will follow the rules. Make empty promises. Throw cash in your face. Make threats to take you
to court.
When in fact they have already lied. These investors are not honest nor are they PONO. They will twist your words
making you believe you were in the wrong. Or they will play stupid to control the outcome. Open up your eyes! Wake
up!
Maui does not need more unnecessary excessive over the top enormous concrete eye sore, (an elevator?)
Elevators are for commercial buildings.
Look at all the HUGE homes on S. Kihei Road...most of those sit empty collecting dust & cobwebs.
Maui needs to put better use to empty lots, we need more affordable housing for our local born Hawaiians.
STOP catering to the outsiders and DO Good for the Community!
Alison LY
Sweet Blessings & Much Aloha
"To Thine Own Self Be True"
1
-i-- .«tv 0* .■
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. AICP
Direclor RECEIVEDOf '●
JORDAN E. HART
Deputy Director
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNINGJIR JJN 20 PH > 23
COUNTY OF MAUI
ONE MAIN PLAZA
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 315
WAILUKU, MAUL HAWAII 96793
June 16,2022
office of theCOUNTY CLERK
Honorable Michael P. Victorino, Mayor
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMfTTAL
7^ ^ f 1^7Mayor Dale
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
SUBJECT: RESOLUTION NO. 22-159
1 am writing to request that the Council not adopt Resolution No. 22-159 as drafted
because it contains several errors and inaccuracies. I have no objection to the resolution being
referred to an appropriate committee for further discussion.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony. If you have any questions or need
additional information, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
MICHELE MCLEAN, AICP
Planning Director
xc: Jordan Hart, Deputy Director
Jacky Takakura, Administrative Planning Officer
MCM:atw
S:\ALL\Michele\Council\Lee Reso 22 159.docx
MAIN LINE (808) 270-7735
CURRENT DIVISION (808) 270-8205 / LONG RANGE DIMSION (808) 270-7214 / ZONING DIVISION (808) 270-7253
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. AICP
Director received#..l-r
w? ^ 20 fH » 23JORDAN E. HART
Deputy Director DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING
COUNTY OF MAUI
ONE MAIN PLAZA
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 315
WAILUKU. MAUL HAWAII 96793
June 16, 2022
■)FF)@e OF THE
"OUNTY CLERKt  ,
Honorable Michael P. Victorino, Mayor
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members:
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 22-52
1 am writing to request that the Council defer taking action on Planning and Sustainable
Land Use (PSLU) Committee Report No. 22-52, which would file Bill 82 (2022) relating
to Apartments in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District.
It is our understanding that Affordable Housing (AH) Committee Chair Gabe Johnson
might be interested in further discussing the bill in his AH Committee. He is out of the
country and will not be present at your June 21,2022 meeting and, therefore, will not be
able to request that the matter be so referred. In order to keep this option open. Committee
Report No. 22-52 can be deferred at your June 21,2022 meeting, thus allowing action to be
taken at your next meeting instead, when AH Committee Chair Johnson is present.
We believe that amendments can be made to the proposed bill to address some of the
concerns raised during the PSLU Committee’s deliberations, including public notice,
affordability, and ensuring that no housing is located near heavy industrial uses. Deferring
action on Committee Report No. 22-52 will allow these ideas to be discuss further.
The Council is mindful of the deadline imposed by the Maui County Charter, where
land use ordinance revisions that are proposed by the planning director must be acted upon
by the Council within 180 days of receipt. The subject bill was transmitted to the Council
on April 18, 2022, meaning that the Council has until approximately October 18, 2022 to
MAIN LINE (808) 270-7735
CURRENT DIVISION (808) 270-8205 / LONG RANGE DIVISION (808) 270-7214 / ZONING DIVISION (808) 270-7253
Honorable Michael P. Victorino, Mayor
For Transmittal to;
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
June 16, 2022
Page 2
take action on the proposed bill to meet the Charter deadline. It should be noted that there
are no repercussions if the deadline is not met; the bill does not automatically pass or fail.
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony. If you have any questions or need
additional information, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
MICHELE MCLEAN, AICP
Planning Director
xc: Jacky Takakura, Administrative Planning Officer
MCM:atw
S:\ALL\Michele\Council\Lee M2 CR.docx
Count^CleH< —B-FCgiVCD
^ M2I M » is
From:
Sent:
micheie.m@charter.net
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:14 AM
County Clerk
FW; SUPPORT PROPOSED INQUIRY INTO GREG BROWN
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from michele.m@charter.net. Learn why this is important
From: michele.m@charter.net
To: "county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Cc:
Sent: Tuesday June 21 2022 10:12;12AM
Subject: SUPPORT PROPOSED INQUIRY INTO GREG BROWN
Please document and include us with the many others that are in support of the above mentioned inquiry.
This investigation is valid and important. The exemptions, approvals, etc. fairly and justly should be investigated. We live
in Kapalua and use Napili Bay, ocean trails, etc. We love the natural beauty of our area. This building ruins our landscape
and natural beauty of our area, it is not acceptable and should not be approved.
We are in support of Kelly King's Resolution 22-159 for the investigation and also Tamara Paltin's Resolution 22-158 to
apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Please accept this email and present our wishes to the council.
Mahalo,
Michele & Martin Morey
100 Ridge Rd.#524
Lahaina, HI 96761
1
County Clerk Picrt--r./cp
m M 20 PH > 33From:
Sent:
Teresa Nae'ole <britsrock@me.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:21 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject: OFFiee OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
(You don't often get email from britsrock(5)me.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Aloha, Teresa Naeole
1
Count^CleHc
RECEIVED
mM20 JIM » 13
From:
Sent:
tnelson002@hawaii.rr.com
Sunday, June 19, 2022 9:36 PM
County Clerk
Testimony regarding Resolution 22-154
To:
Subject:
OFFMK OF THE
COUNTY CUERK
You don't often get email from tnelson002@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important
I don't believe the proposed resolution to convert real property from transient vacation rental use to residential use will
improve availability of "affordable housing" nor do I believe it is legal. I am extremely upset by the prospect of denying
my ability to continue to rent out my condhotel unit at Kamaole Sands. We bought the unit 20 years ago at which time
it was a TVR and we bought it for that purpose. Kamaole Sands was built as a resort facility and that is its primary
use. We have been residents of Maui for about 15 years. I don't see how it could be legal or ethical to deprive us of our
right to derive income as was established when we procured the property.
One-bedroom units at Kamaole Sands are selling for $750,000 and up. The current AOAO fees are greater than $600 a
month. These costs are not compatible with "affordable housing". 1 would also remind the Council that the County
would lose the Transient Accommodation Tax and increased property taxes generated by TVRs.
It looks like the Council, if the bill becomes law, is transferring its legal obligation to determine zoning to condo
associations. 1 don't think you can do that, as the Council has the obligation to act on behalf of the people who elected
them and that duty cannot be relegated to some other body, i also think our condo documents control and cannot be
overridden or rewritten by the Council. Finally I think the current owners have a strong "estoppel" argument and a
"taking" argument under the U.S. Constitution.
I request that the TVR conversion proposal be rescinded so that we may continue to derive beneficial use of our
property.
Tom Nelson
Kihei
1
County Clerk
RgGCIVCD
m JJH 20 PH > 33
Paula Opal <popalrwc@gmail.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:27 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFl©€ OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from popalrwc@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear Council
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
The island needs to stop this development and prevent this person from flagrantly ignoring and subverting Maui law and
code just because he can. And the Council needs to enforce new code and/or process improvement to ensure this
doesn't happen again.
Sincerely
Paula Opal
Kapalua
1
CoiHityClerk RFCpn/pn
mi JUN 20 AH 8: 13From:
Sent:
HelpThanks <HelpThanks@protonmail.ch>
Friday, June 17, 2022 8;54 PM
County Clerk
Bill 21
To:
OFFICf 0F THE
COUNtY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from helpthanks@protonmail.ch. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui Council
I would like to express my support for the proposed BIII21 regarding outdoor lighting for protection of seabirds.
The light pollution that we now face is increasing with each new development. This bill seeks to tackle the issue.
This bill is is forward thinking and when implemented will make Maui County better not for just birds, but more
energy efficient. Also will help in reducing light pollution for all residents.
Another problem is the motion sensor lighting the extreme wealthy have been installing on their empty mansions at
the shoreline. These do damage to more than just birds. They damage our vision, and nesting honu.
Please vote for approval of this bill.
Many Mahalos
Jonny Orlando
1
received
^ JUN 21 «l 7: I|0
OFFi©e OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
THE DUNESMAUI I.ANl
June 20, 2022
Alice Lee, Chair, Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Via email: cQuntv.clerk@mauicQuntv.us
RE; OUTDOOR LIGHTING BILL 21 (2022), COMMITTEE REPORT NO. 22-47.
Dear Chair Lee:
The proposed Outdoor Lighting Bill 21 (2022) will cause undue harm to businesses and our
small community, and therefore, we do not support this bill.
Community Impacts:
● COVID is still on Maui, and it continues to plague our community. The proposed bill will
cause businesses to shut down, prices of goods and services to increase, and prevent
companies like ours from being able to help the community. Our clubhouse has been
without a restaurant tenant for six months due to COVID, and now this proposed bill
would place our practice facilities in a precarious economic position.
● To illustrate, the driving range at our golf course serves as a community gathering place.
We provide free and discounted services to community groups such as:
o  Special Olympics of Maui
o The PGA Hope Wounded Warrior Project
o  Boys & Girls Club of Maui
o Maui Memorial Medical Center Foundation
o Maui Junior Golf
o  First Tee Hawaii
o Drive, Chip and Putt sponsored by the Masters Tournament, United States Golf
Association, and The PGA of America
H.P. Baldwin High School Golf Team
o Kamehameha High School Golf Team
To comply with the proposed bill, it would require removing all existing lights then
installing double the number of lights down each side of the range. At $6/bucket of
balls, the cost would be unsurmountable and most likely cause the closure of our
practice facilities.
o
Chair Lee
June 20, 2022
Page 2
Community Outreach and Department Implementation:
● It is apparent that sufficient community outreach to organizations, churches, schools,
and businesses has not occurred,
o Are organizations like the Maui Raceway Park and businesses like the drive-in
restaurant aware of the pending legislation and its financial impacts?
o Does the school with the LED stadium lights understand that their lights require
full shielding to comply with Class 1 Recreational Lighting per Ordinance 3430?
● The Department of Public Works has stated that existing Ordinance 3430 is only
enforced if there is a complaint. Without proper implementation, including a budget
and staffing, how does the Council know that the existing ordinance does or does not
work? Our community of people, businesses, and organizations cannot endure another
economic hit, especially when this burden is based on conjecture.
The Outdoor Lighting Bill 21 (2022) will cause irreparable harm to our small community as we
try to heal and recover from a pandemic. There is no solid scientific evidence that this bill will
save any seabirds, but the unintended consequence is obvious. This bill will devastate our
community network of resources at our most vulnerable time. The pandemic rules shut down
ball fields and businesses that non-profits and student athletics relied on. Please do not cause
another shutdown of much-needed community resources. We implore the Council to vote "no
on Outdoor Lighting Bill 21 (2022). We all care about the environment and welcome the
opportunity to be part of the conversation. Please feel free to contact the undersigned at
(808)244-8730 or email Lpaci@mills-group.com.
Sincerely,
Leiane Pad
General Manager
Maui County Council MembersCc:
Ph: 808-244-8730149 Ma'a Street, Kahului, HI 96732
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Steve Paselk <stevepaselk(S)gnaail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 10:32 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from stevepase!k@gmaii.com. Learn whv this is important
I support of Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili. As a homeowner
of 32 years who plans to get a building permit for renovations I am terrified of going through this process
and I don't want any special variances. This byzantine process is broken. People need to hire consultants to get
anything through and the consultants build relationships and know the loopholes and many of them know the ropes
of offering bribes to the right people and corruption grows. The Greg Brown episode has been ignored and covered
up for too long and is a shameful blight on the building and planning departments and county government in
general.
Turning the building into a community center will not correct the blight and damage to the community and will
reward Greg Brown for his part in the corruption by paying him for the building. If the building is somehow allowed
to
stand it should definitely not be eligible for a short term rental. At this point even if bribes are proven and the
building is ordered demolished the County's involvement in permit approvals and defenses of those permits could
lead to
partial or complete reimbursement to Greg Brown for those improper approvals.-Steve Paselk, Paia
sOo© “n
mom©o <●n
mm:»x 9 Oww
1
Count^£Ierk RFCFiVED
From:
Sent:
Pospisil, Barbara <BPospisil@gc.cuny.edu>
Monday, June 20, 2022 4:19 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
mi M2Q n 25
To:
v-;)FFl©e ©F THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from bpospisil@gc.cuny.edu. Learn why this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and
Tamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
1
County Clerk ! > ■ r: n
From;
Sent:
kimberly potter <kimberlypotter2022@icloud.com>
Saturday, June 18, 2022 6:55 AM
County Clerk
New Bill 21 Proposal
immiQ w »13
To:
Subject: OFFiOe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from kimberlypotter2022@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
To whom it may concern:
Precluding certain kinds of needed lighting would be against safety codes and personal safety.
This would be unreasonable.
I understand we all are protective of our environment, however, I believe must birds do not fly at night.
Mahalo,
Kimberly Potter
Maui Westside Owner
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
7lg?JIH?l IMfirn?County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Ginger Prince <ginger3prince@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 7;46 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
vOFFlO^ GF THE
OUNTY GLE«KnTo:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ginger3prince(5)gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center Instead.
The way the permits were presented as a two story family residence and the resulting looks of the building are in no way
correct. Time to make a stand for our "Maui " and tear this monstrosity down as a warning to future builders looking to
make their millions.
Mahalo,
Ginger Prince
1
Count^Clerk
From;
Sent:
Carol A REINHOLD <careinhold@mac.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 3:15 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from careinhold@mac.com. Learn why this is important
As an owner of two condominiums on Napili Bay, I am in support of both Kelly King’s Reso 22-159 for an official
investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a
Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Carol Reinhold
301 Esquina
Newport Beach, CA 92660
Home (949) 675-3085
Mobile (949) 697-9333 ooO "n
moN>
mo-<
eo <3Ti
mm-H
5BX a
1
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
louiserockett@aol.com
Monday, June 20, 2022 3:24 PM
County Clerk
testimony
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from louiserockett@aol.com. Learn why this is important
i support Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili.
0OO -nC-n moroo m
3 <m*H mw:sx aw
1
Vi
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Chris Salem <chrissalem8@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 8:08 AM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Mike J. Molina; Tasha A. Kama; Kathy L
Kaohu; Gabe Johnson; Yukilei Sugimura; Keani N. RawIiris;fl<^|0CilC|Fb3Utl£l. Raatz
Written Testimony - Resolution to Investigate BrowhItQ4J(>)l'iFiynCLERK
miM2\ AH»irTo:
Cc:
Subject:
Good Day Honorable Chair Lee;
I want to thank the Council for bringing forth the Resolution to investigate the Department of Planning
and Department
of Public Work's on the irresponsible permit approvals issued to Brown Development.
While there are numerous
violations by the developer which have been ignored by Planning Director Mclean, the most recent is
one which
cannot be overlooked, and is just cause to immediately reinstate the Stop Work Orders.
Brown Development's application for an "after-the-fact" SMA Minor permit on top of a hotel
development which received a
SMA Permit Exemption, falsely alleged the cost of work performed on grading, stone walls,
etc. was $15,000.00. (See Below)
Planning Director Mclean acknowledged in public testimony that she decided not use her
duty and authority under the SMA rules to ask
Public Works to review the accuracy of contractor  /developer valuation. According to the
former Director of Public Works, not once
1
has the Department of Planning requested from DSA engineers a review of developer’s
SMA Permit v^juations^
Please look over the attached estimate by a licensed contractor that actually values the "after-the-
fact" worfe h^oirned'' tWl
Brown Development at over $225,000.00. With this information in hand, we believe DSA’s qualified
licensed professional engineer
Lance NakamuraY PE has a duty to address this misrepresentation to the County by a
licensed contractor?
Does this require a directive from Planning Director Mclean, or does a private citizen's complaint or
RFS trigger this review
and consequences? Can the Council conclude with urgency the Planning Director was negligent,
and request the Corporation Counsel
Directorto advise their client to take the appropriate action?
Should the DCCA contractor's licensing authority be sent this evidence from the Planning
Department, DSA, or Corporation Counsel?
Respectfully:
Chris Salem
Chairman of the Board
Napili Bay Community Association
cc: Board Members
2
MK’HAKLP. VICTORINO
Maynr
MICHRLE CKQUTHAU MCLEAN. AICP
Dirov'toi
JORDAN E. HART
Dcinity Director
1.
A
DEPARTMKN’l OF PLANNING
COUNTY OF MAUI
ONE MAIN FLAZ..\
2200 MAIN STRRET. SUITE 31 .S
WAILUKU, MAUI. HAWAII 96793
Febmur)' 4, 2022
Qreg Brown
NapiJi Beach I louse LLC
P.O. Box 1060
I..ahaina, Hawaii 96767
Dear Mr. Greg:
SUBJECT: AFrER-ITIE-FACT SPECIAL M.VNAGFAfENT AREA (SMA)
MINOR PERMIT APPROVAL FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A
TERRACED ROCK WALL AT 5385 LOWER HONOAPIILANI
ROAD, LAIIAINA, MAUI, HAWAII;
fSMX2021/fl.3ll!) (SM7 7077/0012)
TMK: (2)4-3-002:057
rhe Departmcni of Planning (Department) has reviewed and assessed your subject application
dated August 30, 2021. including structural plans for the subject terraced w'all. as attached and dated
January 5, 2021 [siej. In accordance with tlic Special Management Area Rules for the Maui Planning
Commission, Sections 12-202-12 and 12-202-14, a determination has been made relative to the above
project that:
1. The project is a development: pursuant to Section 205-A-22 and can be issued a
SM2 permit approval with conditions;
2. 1 he scope of the project is to construct a terraced perimeter wall
line; the outer wall on w'cst property
i.s up to four feet tall, eiglitccn inches wide and 210 feel long.
Tire inner wall is up to seven feel tall, eighteen inches wide and 580 feet long.
Neither the outer wall nor inner wall will retain more than 36 inches of earth fill.
The terraced wall was not included as part of original SMA pennit. Tlie wall has
been constructed and thus is an After-lhc-Fact permit authorization;
3. TIjc project has a valuation not in excess of S500.000.00;
(Valuation; $15,000.00)
3
Qyo-tCpf ^CLWc^COy lyxo.
GENERAL CONTRACTOR ● UCENSES£3022902-BC23623
June 6.2022
Mr. Chris Salem
Napili, in
RE: Wall co.sk
Aloha Chris;
Noi knowing all ihc parameters of the project such as grading and compaction. I can ofter you the fol
lowing costs in today’s market for the items in question. These would be good averages of what
tractors arc paying to have this type of work completed.
Rock wall work: S30-S40 a square depending on the style of wall and rock type chosen. Also,
most walls arc 18" in thickness so it’s 1 times the quote.
Excavation: $200 per hour including operator and machine...NO I mobiiizaiion.
Just by doing .simple math on the quantities listed on the .SMA pennit at the $30 a sf price, the first wall
1,260 sf which would tramlatc into $37,800 and the second wall is 4.060 sf which would translate into
$ \ 82,700. Keep in mind the^ numbers DO NOT iivclude excavation, compaction, overhead and profit
or Oh 1 ax, which I would think are ail part of the proces.s a.s well.
Backfill and compaction is usually by the hour and not knowing how much is involved here is hard to
determine. Also, are tltere any drainage systems behind these walls? I would think that this lower sec
tion of wall (wtich looks to be retaining the upper section of wall) should have been cnaineered since it
IS retaining and it’s over 3' in height. Minimum drain system.s would be iniheS25 per lineal fool range
Overhead and Profit is usually anywhere trom 10 to 25% depending on the contractor.
The total value of this project could be in excess of S225.000.00.
Hope this helps you .
Respectfully yours.
us con-
I.H
Thud Henry /
Owner
Thad Henry Design Group HI. Inc,
P.O.BOX878 - LAHAINA. MAUI, HI 96767-0878
PHONE # (808) G60-7773 FAXli^ (808) 86
>3^6.8880
Forwarded Message
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] Request for Assistance
State of Hawai'i
Office of Planning
4
Good Afternoon Justine:
The documentation I have present to your authority clearly represents a complete breakdown in the
County of Maui's
administration of HRS 205A. How many more citizen driven complaints and lawsuits will it take
before the State
Office of Planning investigates the evidence of gross negligence by the Department of Planning under
Director Mclean?
Does this look like a structure which should have been issued a SMA Permit exemption which denied
citizens of their rights
to public participation during the SMA application process? Isn't public participation paramount by
statute? Director Mclean
has just issued a "after the fact" SMA Permit on  a"development" which was her Department
originally issued an SMA Exemption
that stated the project was determined to not be  a"development".
As exhibited below, the developer / contractor submitted an fraudulent valuation of the work
performed to obtain an "after the fact"
SMA Minor Permit. Is this not just cause for investigation at a State level? Is this not grounds for
suspension or revocation of
the contractor's license? Finally, is it fair to ask you to forward this evidence to the State licensing
agency for contractors?
Why does State law provide specific rules to the Counties and your office fails and refuses to insure
they are honored and upheld?
With that said, my UIPA request is a just for the amount of funding the State provides to
Maui County to administer HRS 205A.
Just the last 3 years is fine to satisfy this government record request.
This information should be easily produced with limited impact on your busy schedule.
Respectfully;
Christopher Salem
Chairman of the Board
Napili Bay Community Association
5
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Axel i. Beers
Monday, June 20, 2022 9:43 AM
County Clerk
Fw: submitting Maui County Council Bill 21 Testimony
To:
Subject:
Importance: High OoO T1
CTI m
oHi, N>
-< O rnoo <T!Forwarding testimony for June 21. m H
xm
m
oThank you,
Axel
From: Erik <erik(5)extendedhorizons.com>
Subject: submitting Maui County Council Bill 21 Testimony
Date: June 18, 2022 at 11:27:09 AM HST
Aloha Council
I am writing to add my voice to the support of passing Bill 21 as proposed. The issue of light pollution on
Maui has been an ongoing and seemingly intractable issue for decades.
There are so many reasons to support this bill. Starting with the science behind it, the protection of
seabirds, the protection of nesting turtles and more. However it is simple to understand environmental
reasons, there are also esthetic reasons and sound business reasons.
In the past 4 decades of growth, I have seen the darkness of Maui's night sky steadily eroded.
Some of it patently blatant, like the lighting for bigbox store parking lots. Some of it with best of
intentions like night time sporting lighting, and the often cited use of lighting to deter crime.
As this growth of lighting has happened there has been little regard for the stray lighting or simple
retrofits which can be easily used. Businesses and governmental agencies owe it to the community to
utilize current LED tech and shielding for a better night time experience.
One only need to look at the intersection of Kaanapali and Hwy 30 to see an example of how much light
can be directed to an area without blinding bystanders.
The time to act is now. As a business owner myself that is severely regulated at the County, State, and
Federal level I have to say, this bill is generous in it giving 3 years to phase in better lighting to meet the
bill's requirements for existing fittings.
Please pass this bill for all the residents and animals that are affected by light pollution on Maui.
Mahalo,
Erik Stein
Extended Horizons
httDs://www.mauinews.com/news/local-news/2022/06/concerns-loom-over-outdoor-lighting-bill-in-
maui-countv/
1
From:
Sent:
Amy Stephens <rainbowcountrymaui@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 5:05 AM
County Clerk
support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159
RECEIVED
anJUN2) mi:noTo:
Subject:
OFFI®E ©F THE
GOUNTY clerkYou don’t often get email from rainbowcountrymaui@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Maui County Council,
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into the Planning
Department and Tamara Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a
Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Mahalo,
Amy Stephens
1
RECEIVED
an JUH 21 AH ?! HO
From:
Sent:
Ananda Stone <splashvideo@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 6:50 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
OFFI«e ©F THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don't often get email from splashvideo@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha County Clerk,
1 support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.The building Greg Brown is
building in Napili is an eye sore and I understand that he is trying to call it a "home" when it is clearly a hotel. I would
like to find out who in our Planning Department is being paid off to allow for illegal buildings to get permits.
Mahalo,
Ananda Stone
1
RECffVED
OFFI^ ©F THE
COUNTY CLERKMAUIi > Vi^ CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 109
Relating to Grants for Home Restoration
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
We believe this is another smart solution and a tool in the toolbox. We want to echo
the testimony from the Realtors Association of Maui that considering ohana units is
another great option as it provides more housing and needed rentals in our
community.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique community
characteristics.
MlEfilPillliWlsaiW!
regsived;.
«WN 2) PH B: 51
pFF!i(£ ©F THE
COUNTY CLERK
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Resolution 22-159
Authorizing A Council Committee to Conduct A Formal Investigation of the
Department of Planning and the Department of Public Works
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
And Members of the Maui County Council,
We believe it is important to have a fair and equitable permitting system with clear
rules. As formal investigations are paid for by taxpayer dollars, we like to see a clear
definition of the scope of work and a timeline to achieve the goal. We believe at this
point, given the audit findings, that this is needed. We commend the Planning
Department for acknowledging that mistakes were made in this instance and
understand that mistakes happen, but we feel more needs to be done to close
loopholes.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique community
characteristics.
RECEIVED^
!inJlM2l PNI2<5I
MAUI OFFIG€ ©F THE
COUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Resolution 22-158
Authorizing Proceedings in Eminent Domain for the Acquisition
Of Real Property Located at 5384 Lower Honoapiilani Road
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
As this authorizes the start of the process of potentially obtaining the property by
eminent domain and surveys and evaluations have not yet been completed, we think it
is premature to specify a proposed structure use. We understand that if this property is
taken for eminent domain, it would need to be for  apublic purpose, but we have many
top priorities and think the proposed use should have broader community input before
a decision is made.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, \A/hile preserving Maui’s unique community
characteristics.
RECEIVED"
nnJUN2i w»5i
p; MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE QFFI®£ of theGOUNtY clerk
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-53/Resolutlon 22-154
Converting Apartment Buildings to Long-Term Use
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council.
We believe this option to shift properties from short-term rentals to long-term rentals
may be another tool in the toolbox. We also recognize that 100% buy in from ov^ners
may be difficult to achieve. We support this bill moving to the planning commissions for
their review and look forward to their assessment.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely.
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique community
characteristics.
pppifii
.-.I
RECEIVED"
an ^21 «»si
MAUI OFFiSje ®F THE
BOUNTY CLERKCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BtJSINESS
CR 22-47/Bill 21
Regulating Outdoor Lighting
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
While we understand and agree with the intent to protect native seabirds, we cannot
support this bill as it is currently written as it is ill-informed and could have vast impacts
and repercussions, as noted by Corporation Counsel and the Public Works
Commission. We agree with the various points made by the Public Works Commission
and also understand that Corporation Counsel has drafted a bill that would achieve the
goal without causing hardships to businesses and residents.
For these reasons, we ask that this bill be filed and the Corporation Counsel draft be
discussed.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui’s unique community
characteristics.
received
miJUH21 W12s5l
MAUI OFFliNE 9f THEEGUNtY CLERKCHAAiBEROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-52/Bill 82
Apartments in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District
Tuesday, June 21, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
When it comes to affordable housing and rentals, we need to look at new solutions for
affordability and we learned at both of our housing summits (June 2017 & October
2019) that it is tremendously helpful to have infill projects as infrastructure already
exists in these areas. With existing infrastructure, the cost to develop affordable
housing and rentals Is greatly reduced and therefore, allows the units to be rented at a
much lower level.
While we acknowledge that there may be added noise or lights due to the location,
there are residents who currently have no rental choices or prospects. This could
create safe housing options. We must remember that living in one of these areas is a
choice and if someone rents an apartment and decides the lighting or noise is too
much, they then have the choice to move, but at least they have a roof over their
heads for a time. These locations may actually be desirable as they are close to many
jobs, goods, and services. We are hearing from businesses whose employees make
good money, but are having to sleep in their cars because of the lack of affordable
rentals, which is also clearly known by the Council given that Bill 108 is being
discussed.
Additionally, we don’t have the same types of industrial areas like they do on the
mainland. Since these parcels are in heavy industrial areas, this bill puts protections in
place like environmental testing, buffer zones, and landscaping. We are also not
looking at areas where affordable homes are built with the intention of homeownership
but apartments that are rented. Because of that, people will not feel pressured to stay
if they do not like the area. It is also important to recognize that if apartments are built
in these areas, developers will intentionally design the space to encourage rentals and
mitigate light and noise, as they do not want the buildings to sit empty.
Lastly, this bill has the blessing of the Maui and Lanai Planning Commissions and with
that approval and our points above, we are highly confused why the Council is
recommending filing of this bill and approaching it on a case by case approval basis.
We need solutions now and individual approvals take too much time.
aii»giLiWiinii^
V4 ■t
;qL"MAUI^ k>!«i;;^2^’-CHAMBEROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-52/Bill 82
Tuesday, July 21, 2022
Page 2.
This is a much-needed tool in the toolbox to help mitigate our housing crisis and
should be passed, not filed. We truly hope people are paying attention to hearings and
actions that help move affordable housing and rentals forward and actions that move
us backwards, like this one.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide testimony on this bill.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
r-
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating for a responsive government and
quality education, while preserving Maui's unique community
characteristics.
'V w wtT4i«r: m
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
J!M VERBICK <jvneurotoxica@comcast.net>
Monday, June 20, 2022 2:33 PM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from jvneurotoxica@comcast.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification ]
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin's Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
Sent from my iPhone
3OO
m^.5 oN>
o  {Tj
3 <
-<
oo*n
mm-H
:s3X a\j%
■>0
1
From:
Sent:
Tapani Vuori <tvuori@mauioceancenter.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 8:21 PM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill 21, relating to outdoor lighting for protection of seabirds
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from tvuori@mauioceancenter.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Honorable Chair and Committee Members,
I strongly support Bill 21.
I am a Board member at Ma'alaea Triangle Association (MTA) which represents all the commercial business
in the Ma'alaea Triangle commercial area. We have  aparking lot that contains 756 parking stalls and 37
light poles most being 30' high. These light poles were installed about 25 years ago when the commercial
area was developed and are end of life with outdated lighting technology that is not energy efficient and
not very seabird friendly. We are in the final stages of contract negotiations with a lighting manufacturer
that is able to deliver to our specifications; < 2% blue light content, < 3,000K, and shielded light fixtures.
They are completely PV + battery operated. Our new lights will be 18' tall. We expect to be able to execute
this project by the end of 2022.
I wanted to share this project with Maui County Council considering this issue as here we have a private
organization that recognizes the importance of this issue and is making the decision on its own to lead with
a solution that is not only seabird friendly but also most energy efficient and it is happening now. I urge the
Maui County Council to continue to be forward looking and be the agents for positive change in a^ for
oo - ■0^*1
z.©
our
Community. Thank you for your time and consideration.
mAloha, ON>
-< moTapani Vuori 1 General Manager
Maui Ocean Center, The Hawaiian Aquarium
192 Ma'alaea Rd, Wailuku, HI 96793
t 808.270.7097 | c. 808.561.2022
O *-Q
:s;ri
<
moA
o
SEA what we're up to! Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Website | Map
Our Mission: E hi'i a maopopo kaho'oha'oha'o ana  ame ka ho 'ihi no ka Hawai'i ola ma ke kai
To foster understanding, wonder and respect for Hawaii's marine life
1
NbCbiVbUFrom:
Sent:
Rich Wesson <richardwesson@msn.com>
Monday, June 20, 2022 6;51 PM
County Clerk
Greg Brown
m? JUN2I ffl 7:40To:
Subject:
OFFi©e OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from richardwesson@msn.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
Listen to the people.
Richard Wesson
284 Hayward Road
Pullman Wa 99163
Covid expatriate
1
received
OfFiCS THE
GOUl^V CLERK
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Dan Williams <onenapi@aloha.net>
Tuesday, June 21, 2022 7:48 AM
County Clerk
Support for 22-159 and 22-158
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from onenapi@aloha.net. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification ]
I support of both Kelly King's Reso 22-159 for an official investigation into Greg Brown's abuses in Napili and Tamara
Paltin’s Reso 22-158 to apply Eminent Domain to build a Hawaiian Cultural Center instead.
I insist that the above resolutions be put into action , when I hired Chris Hart to help me develop that parcel a few years
back 1 was held to an entirely different standard. Brown development is crooked , he should never have been given
permits. Our existing development accross the street from this monster has been repeated assaulted by bad business
practices. So not only is he a crook he's an asshole. Maybe it's not against the laws to be a jerk, but he certainly has
skirted the law. If it's allowed to continue I believe by comparison my opportunity was usurped, I've kept all my
records should anyony like to see them.
Dan Williams.
One Napili Way
Sent from my iPhone
1