MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-07-15
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1328,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MIMUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
July 15, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, JULY 15, 2022, BEGINNING
AT 9:03 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L LEE: Willthe Council meeting of July 15. 2022, please come to
order.
Good morning, everyone. The greetingforthe day isfrom Belgium and itissalut.
Mr. Clerk, rollcall.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with rollcall.
Members participatingfrom non-publiclocationsshould statewho, ifanyone, except
children,ispresent withthem as partof rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Salut,Chair and aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina.
Spoke in Hawaiian.
Today, we are at the Hana DistrictOfficewhere there'sa light. . . misty white rain
coming down atthe moment. Here withmy districtstaff...Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and good morning. Madam Chair,and colleagues,and
everyone elsejoiningus forour Councilmeeting here today. I'mtransmittingfrom my
residence here in Makawao. And I've been informed that there are no testifiersat the
Paia District Office. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka, Madam Chair, and colleagues, and the public.
We have quite a few testifiersbehind us here inthe chambers. And i have no reports
yet of any testifiersat the South Maui DistrictOffice,but I’llletyou know when I hear
from them directly.And justhope everyone has a great day today. Looking forward to
another packed agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ialmost pressed the wrong button. Salut and aloha kakahiaka
kakou from the Council Chambers. Drove inearlythismorning, seen the remnants of
the water crossingthe road lastnight,so it'sgoing to be a rough rideon the way home.
Ihaven'theard of any testifiersatthe DistrictOffice.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha. Good morning. Chair. Aloha kakahiaka and salutto all
of my colleagues out there. Iam in my home, in my workspace. And I have Maikai
and Makana and Lena here with me. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 3
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Maui Nui A Kama . . .
Council Chambers. And I'mseeing no testifiersatthe Molokai DistrictOffice,but there
are several Molokai individualswishing to testify.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I'm sorry,Isee that there are three testifiersat
the Molokai DistrictOffice. Mahalo, Ms. Lindo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Present. Salutto everyone. And let's,let'shope thiswillbe a fun,exciting,and
short meeting. Thank you.
(Councilmember Sugimura arrivedat the meeting at 9:07 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Chair.Councilmember Sugimura has justjoined us inthe
chambers.
CHAIR LEE: isshe walking down to-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: She's settingup at the moment, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning, everybody. I'msettingup my computer.
CHAIR LEE: Can you announce your name? Ican hear her.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yuki Lei Sugimura, here fora wonderful day and evening.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Don'tsay that. Not evening. Okay, thank you. So-
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING. TAMARA A.M. PALTIN, YUKI LEI K.
SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA. VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 4
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER GABRIEL JOHNSON.
(Councilmember Johnson w/as not present when the rollwas called; however, he
arrivedat the meeting at 9:18 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: There are eight Members present, one Member excused. A
quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council. For the record. Iam Deputy
County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Officeof the County Clerk are
LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana and DellYoshida.
And joiningus from the Department ofthe Corporation Counsel isCorporation Counsel
Moana Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Opening remarks thismorning willbe provided by Member King.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offeredby Councilmember KellyKing.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Well said.
Now, Members, please joinme inrecitingthe Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, please, I request thateveryone keep
theirmicrophones and sound devices muted unless itisyour time to speak. Decorum
shall be maintained at all times.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 5
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentationof testimony on the
ceremonial resolution.Members of the publicmay testifyin the Council Chamber, at
courtesy testimony sites,or remotely through the information listedon the meeting
agenda.
Individualsinthe Chamber may sign up to testifywith the staffmember located at the
desk in the 8th floorlobby. Individualsat courtesy testimony sitesmay sign up with
staffat the site.Individualsparticipatingremotely may sign up inthe meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you willautomatically be added to the
testifierlist.Individualsconnected by phone are currentlyon mute and willbe unmuted
when itistheirtime to testify.Individualsconnected by video conference should keep
both theirvideo and microphones offand should turnthem on only when itistheirtime
to testify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforthree
minutes with up to one minute to conclude per item.When testifying,please stateyour
name and the name of any organization you represent, as well as the item on which
you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.
Individualsmay be disconnected from the meeting at any time forbreaking decorum.
At thistime, we willbe taking testimony on the ceremonial resolutiononly. The first
person signed up to testifyon the ceremonial resolutionis Lucienne de Naie. To be
followed by BridgetMowat.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Nice to see allof you today. This isLucienne de Naie from
Huelo. Idon’t,Idon'thave the privilegeof knowing Colette well,but Ihave worked with
her on variousprojectsand issuesformany, many years and she willbe deeply missed.
She had a dedicationto things and a focus that reallystood out among those who
deeply care about our aina and our people. And I am very sad to know thatwe have
one less voice to speak forallthe important things thatshe stood forallofthese years.
So mahalo forthisopportunity.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 6
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individualsigned up to testifyisBridget Mowat. To be
followed by Juanita Reyher Colon.
MS. BRIDGET MOWAT:
Good morning. Good morning, Councilmembers. And Ijustwant to speak on behalf
of my family,the Mowat's, we liveon Molokai. My name is Bridget Mowat and Ijust
wanted to share my relationshipwith Colette has been a long one. Iremember when
she firstcame to Molokai. We were ata meeting, or we were atan officeplace upstairs
from, Ithinkitwas American Savings, but she taught me how to use a thesaurus. She
told me, showed me the book, and told me what itwas used for,and Ithought thatwas
fabulous. I was older than her, married with children,and I didn'teven know what a
thesaurus was. So, I down, I don't know what I did, but she showed itto me, and I
thought, no wonder she know plenty of words and no wonder she can write so well.
So, from then on, I'm a user of the thesaurus.
She was a mana wahine, very articulate.She, when she had business to be done, she
went rightat it.She was always, she did her homework. Whenever we were attending
meetings, she would always question these tons ofdocuments that,thatshould've,that
we allshould have read thatwe, that Iwould get bored inthe middle of it.But she read
everything,and she knew justwhat to ask. She was smart. She reallyloved Molokai.
The lasttime Ispoke with her,she was inthe hospital,and she was coming home. So,
I know she loved Molokai very much. So, Ijustwanted to share that. She willbe
missed. Ihave been to many meetings with her,and boy, when she startedpounding
tables,and making her point clear,I didn'tknow whether I should run, or what, man.
She was, she's a tough cookie, and she was always thatfront,frontline,she was on
the frontlineof every battlewe fought, so Ireallyhave a lotof respect forher, and she
willbe missed. And we love the family. And Isend my condolences. So, thank you,
Keani and Councilmembers forallowing us this,thistime to share our mana'o, and God
bless you all.Mahalo.
(Councilmember Johnson arrivedat the meeting at 9:18 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next individualsigned up to testifyisJuanita Reyher-
Colon. To be followedby LoriBuchanan. And Chair,justto notifyyou, Councilmember
Johnson has joined us inthe chambers.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning. Chair. I'm here, Gabe Johnson. Salut.
There is no testifiers at the Lanai District Office. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 7
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you forjoiningus.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Juanita,itisnow your time to testify.
MS. JUANITA REYHER-COLON:
Mahalo. Aloha, Chairwoman Lee and Members of the County Council. My name is
Juanita Reyher-Colon. I'm a residentof Mapulehu, Molokai. Mahalo for allowing me
the time to speak today regarding item E. on the agenda. I want to extend my
condolences to the family of Aunty Colette Machado. I'vehad the privilegeto have
known Aunty notjustas a member ofthe Molokai community, but alsoas a fellowboard
member on the Molokai Land Trust Board.
As we allknow. Aunty Colette was very passionate about Native Hawaiian issues and
rights,as well as our aina. She leaves behind a legacy that transcends our pae ‘aina.
We should allbe proud of the work and advocacy Aunty Colette has done over the
years. Mahalo Aunty Colletteforbeing a mana wahine, a mentor to myself and others,
and a champion of aloha aina. She willbe missed. Mahalo piha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
The next individualwe have signed up to testifyis LoriDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Buchanan. To be followed by Cheryl Corbiell.
MS. LORI BUCHANAN:
Aloha, and good morning Honorable County Councilmembers, best County Council
ever. You know Iloveyou guys. Chair Alice,Iwillbe brief.Thank you, County Council,
for providingthisopportunityto acknowledge a woman I greatlyadmired. Molokai's
mana wahine Colette Machado. When Chair Machado walked intoa room, you knew
that your warriorhad arrived. Igoing tryget through thiswithoutcrying. Extremely
brilliant,our warriorwas always prepared, and she did her homework. So, ifyou were
an opponent, you had betterbe ready. Empathetic, compassionate, and ferocious,she
fought forthe underdog, the oppressed, the downtrodden, those withouta voice. She
was our champion.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 8
Chair Machado's countless contributions to the people of Hawaii will live on in
perpetuity. My condolences to the ohana, because behind every great person is a
great support system, and sacrifice,likeallof you sacrifice.We allsacrificefor our
citizens,and that iswhy Ilove you guys, and Ilove Chair Machado and her family.So
mahalo Council, for honoring her today. Itis deeply appreciated by the people of
Molokai. Mahalo. Have a great day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you so much. Members, questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individualsigned up to testifyisCheryl Corbiell.To be
followed by George Aiwohi.
MS. CHERYL CORBIELL:
Mahalo, Honorable Maui County representatives. And mahalo for the resolution
regarding the contributionsof Colette Machado. I support the resolutionwith much
aloha. Iwas privilegedto work alongside Colette and her husband Myron forseveral
decades. Colette isknown for her work in the County and State areas as an elected
representative,but she was a teacher, a coach, a mentor, volunteer to many
organizations.For example, several non-profitswould not existtoday withoutColette's
guidance, such as the Molokai Land Trust. The renewable energy non-profitson
Molokai, both were started initiallywith the seeds by ColetteMachado.
Whether fightingunsuitableprojectsor forsuitableprojectsand planninga renewable
future, as well as the awareness and activism . . . invasive . . and implementing
something thatthe government said we could not do, and that isto do a research-
oriented 28-mile survey of the Molokai south shore, which is used today by many
entities.She was involvedindozens and dozens of groups and projects.The ... did
become a gathering place as per itsnamesake, with teaching keikiabout ogo and
restoration work at the site.
She helped familiesin need, eitherusing her own resources, or who, gettingthem in
touch withotherorganizations.Istillhear her voice,even though she'snothere,telling
me what to do, which ispono regardless of who isin opposition,to do my homework
and research, and never give up. Colettewas ...because she always spoke so frankly
and honestly. But she gave of her time,selflessly,expertiseand energy tohelpHawaii,
and especiallyMolokai. Mahalo forrecognizing thiswonderful Hawaiian woman and
leader. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 9
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individualwe have signed up to testifyisGeorge
Aiwohi. To be followed by Zhantell Lindo.
MR. GEORGE AlWOHI:
Aloha, Councilmembers. It'san honor to be able to speak on her behalf. And you
know, you heard of allthe thingsthatshe's done on a professionallevel,but she was
my cousin, and she also was a reallystrong advocate for the Hawaiian people,
especiallyforthe people of Molokai, you know. Iseen her walking intothat room, and
man, you betterto be ready.
But Ialso seen the spiritualside of her,yeah. She was a church member as well in
our community and she fought reallyhard to make sure thatthe word of God got out
there,yeah. That she was a strong advocate ofjustknowing how much thatmeant to
the people, how much, Iguess, what I'dliketo say isthatshe went out there when we
had church services and she was a strong advocate forgettingthatmessage out. She
went along with us when we went to visitpeople and prayed forthem.
She made sure that those that needed bibles even, you know? She went out and
bought the Hawaiian biblethatcame from Kamehameha Schools, and she gave those
away, you know, because she wanted us to know thatallthe thingsthathelped her to
be where she's at today was because of her God, because of her loveforher people,
because of the thingsthatwe struggledto get.
On Molokai, you know, we make do with what we have, you know,
growing up thatwe were poor. Inever knew that,because Inever knew thattherewas
an importance formoney, you know. My parents,grandparents, you know, we grew
up in Kalamaula, which isthe firsthomestead. And our familystillowns that,and my
grandmother was one of the very firstto get. And Imyself am a homesteader.
I never knew
Ialso work forthe Judiciary.Iwork forthe drug court,and Ihad the opportunityto ask
her to be a speaker at one of the graduations here on Molokai. I'vebeen working for
the Judiciaryforthe last14 years and stillworking forthem today. Iasked permission
to be able to come and speak on her behalf. And partof the thingsthatshe had done
was spoke at one ofthe graduations. She was very,very loved on thisisland.We will
definitelymiss her, because she was a force to reckon with.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 10
My condolences to Myron. You know, they said forevery great woman there'sa great
man, and that guy could take a beating.You would hear, Myron, and he would be
coming, running,you know, because he's the person that she could depend on. And
you know, when Igot thatmessage from him thatshe had passed, itwas such an honor
to be toldthat 15 minutes ago she had passed. And so, and 1justwant to thank you
guys forgivingme the opportunityto talkon her behalf,on the side that you don't get
to hear thatmuch. Thank you so much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individualwe have signed up to testifyisZhantell
Lindo. To be followed by Walter Ritte.
MS. ZHANTELL UNDO:
Aloha, Council. Itryingto turn on my camera, but it'snot working, so that'sokay. I'm
sure you guys are familiarwith my face. My name isZhantell Lindo, and Iam a keiki
o ka aina of Molokai and had the privilegeof being influenced and knowing Aunty
Colette personally,and insuch a beautifulway.
Iwas born in a generation where when Iwas coming up in community service,itwas
reallyjust me. And Aunty them had been in thisdig for a long, long time. And so, I
came with allmy anxiousness and zeal, and limitedexperience and thought, and she
was quick to put me in my place. Iremember her making me cry at meetings and stuff
afterItestified.And, and where some might take offense,what that did for me was
show me that aloha was never meant to be weak, that when 1come to stand in defense
of my community, and my family,Ibettercome knowing what Italkingabout. When I
come with passion, and allthese great ideas, 1bettermake sure Idid my homework.
And so, thatset me on a course to have integrity,and to be sure that Iwas working for
the betterment of the whole, no matter how hard or alone sometimes you are,thatthe
benefitto thiscommunity was more than justone person. And she taught me allthose
things.
Later on in life,when Igrew up, and she and Ichose to follow Ke Akua ina dedicated
. . . Ihad the privilegeof sittingdown and talkingstory to her one day and she said to
me, Zhantell,you gotta take thismental of aloha and demand thatour community erase
allthe lines. She said so many of us in our Hawaiian culture,and in our effortto help
the lahuihave created unnecessary linesand divisions.
And Iam so blessed to have known her and Uncle Myron, to have been loved by them,
to love them and have reaped the benefits of theirinspiration,not just in words, but
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 11
especiallyindeeds. And though Iwillmiss her and that there isno other person like
her in this entireworld, there is no one likeher, I know thatthere are so many of us,
likemyself and Juanita, and other people, who have been so influencedby her,that
she has transformed our lives and our vision of aloha and leadership injusta way that
can never be lessened and weakened. So, mahalo. Uncle Myron, Gayla Ann. To the
ohana, Ilove you guys. Thank you forsharing such a beautifulwoman. To allof you
mahalo, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Zhantell.Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you again.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. UNDO: Sorry,and forthe record,Iwould justliketo acknowledge that Iwas on my own
time. Testifyingon my own behalf.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next individualsigned up to testifyisWalter Ritte.To
be followed by Stacy Crivello.
MR. WALTER RITTE:
Aloha. I'mtryingto see ifIcould get me on the screen, but Iguess not. The firstthing
that comes to my mind when you talkabout Colette Machado isthat she was a great
lady. There's no doubt inmy mind thatthisisgoing to be a huge loss to allof us on
Molokai. Idon'tknow how we're going to fillthatvoid. But Iknow there'sa lotof young
people coming up, and they can emulate her and fillthat void.
She was a leader. She was a leader that no matter who was in the room, you knew
she was one of the leaders in that room. No nonsense, that'sforsure. And yet,she
had a very spiritualside. Iwas inmany, many, many, many, many battleswith Colette
Machado over the years. Imean, a lotof times we were together and there was a few
times we were againsteach other,but we always stayed together atthe end, no matter
whether we agreed with each other or not.
I'dliketo give you one example of how diverse thislady was. When we were doing
battlesbecause we didn'twant the cruiseships to come to Molokai, she got everybody
together before sunrise and said to everybody that we were gathered there to give
voice for the things that had no voice. And letus know thatwe were fightingcruise
ships not just because of problems on Molokai, that we only have one bathroom for
2,000 people at the wharf, but thatwe were there to protectthe reefand the thingsthat
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 12
going be damaged by thishuge ship. And then we went intoJoe Souki's office. He
was incharge of transportationforthe State,and we triedto convince him not to allow
these ships to come to Molokai. And she and Iwalked in the door, and we talked really
nicelyto Mr. Souki, and itdidn'ttake more than three minutes before we had a swearing
match going on. And of course, she won the swearing match. And there was no ships
coming to Molokai. That was Colette Machado. She willbe missed. And mahalo to
allof you forallowingus to share some of the storiesof thisgreat lady. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the last individual we have signed up to testifyon the
ceremonial resolutionisStacy Crivello.Ifthere are any other individualswho want to
testifyon the ceremonial resolution,please identifyyourselfinthe meeting chat or sign
up withthe appropriatestaffmember. At thistime,Stacy Crivello.
MS. STACY CRIVELLO:
Aloha. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers, and
of course, Myron Akutagawa. Aloha mai kakou. On behalf of my personal friendship
with Colletteand my Helm Ohana, we would liketo mahalo, mahalo you foryour explicit
words of aloha and honor forColetteYvette Pi'ipi'iMachado Akutagawa. Molokai and
Hawaii Nei were blessed to be benefactors of Colette's unselfish works. With her
politicalexperience, she led us through many bumpy and stressfulpaths, but her
leadershiphas managed to weather the frequent storms by focusing on the needs and
rightsof kanaka maoli.
Colette'saccomplishments are endless, and time does not allow me to listher works.
And knowing Colette,she would shy away from thiskind of attention.However, the
well-being of her Hawaiian familiesand communities were always at the top of her
serving ladder. I know Colette as one who has, firstof ail,her love forour heavenly
father,her husband Myron, her ohana. These are allsynonymous of her life'sjourney.
Iwillalways cherish her friendshipand appreciate how we always talkedabout meeting
the needs of our island home.
I'dliketo share a quote. Colette would say, "Molokai is my ‘ainahanau, my land of
birth.It'salso my land of my kupuna kahiko, or ancestors. And lastly,her place of. ..
iwi,where Iwillremain when Ihala". These are quotes from our ColetteMachado. Her
journey has led her unto a glow of unearthly splendor, where she continues her works
as our prayerfulwarrior. Today, she leaves us a canopy of works with love and aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 13
Mahalo, Colette. Mahalo, Myron. Mahalo, Councilmember Keani, for this special
resolutionof recognizing our leader,Colette,for her dedication and commitment to
service. Mahalo nui and malama.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much, Stacy. Members, questions? Very beautiful.Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, one more individualhas indicatedthatthey would wish to
testifyon the ceremonial resolution.That is Hannah Bernard. Hannah Bernard, itis
your time to testifyon the ceremonial resolution.
MS. HANNAH BERNARD:
Oh, kala mai. Aloha kakou and salut, Councilmembers and Chair. I'm just hoping to
speak on behalfof Colette Machado, because of my experience with her so long ago
when the whale sanctuary was firstestablishedby an act of Congress, and very,very
hotlycontested. And many people were concerned about the Federal overlayaddition
and allthe various potentialfor problems. And knowing allof her work, and how
balanced she was inthe way thatshe thought and felt,Isought her counsel intryingto
findout from community members and leaderswhat they thought about the sanctuary,
and is itthe rightthing,and could itwork, and how could we move forward and have
an extra layerof support forour humpback whales in Hawaii?
And I'llnever forget,she said a lotof things,but one of the things she said to me, I
carrywith me always is,Ithinkabout my sister,you know, do 1want protectionformy
sister? Do Iwant protectionfor my own family? And itreminds me so much of the
importance and the beauty and the value of that connectiveness, that allthings,
especiallyas documented inthe creation chant, the kumulipo, the,all,allof Kanaloa,
all of the creatures in the sea are manifestations of Kanaloa and how her bringing it
back to our connectedness and our abilityto take care of each other,that’swhat we
should be lookingat. And so, Ijustreally.I'm so gratefulthatyou're honoring her this
way, because she was an extraordinarybeing and meant a lotto allof us. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, no other individuals have signed up to testifyon the
ceremonial resolution.Ifanyone wants to testifyon the ceremonial resolution,please
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 14
identifyyourselfnow. This isour lastcallfortestimony on thisitem,
one else to testify.
Chair, there is no
CHAIR LEE; Are there any objectionsto closing public testimony and
testimony on the ceremonial resolutions?
accepting written
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-169
EXTENDING CONDOLENCES TO THE FAMILY
OF THE LATE COLETTE YVETTE PI‘1P1‘I
MACHADO
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-169, ENTITLED
’’EXTENDING CONDOLENCES TO THE FAMILY OF THE LATE
COLETTE YVETTE PI'IPI’IMACHADO".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt the Resolution 22-169.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 15
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May I please request the Clerk to
read the resolutionin itsentirety?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
(The resolutionivasread initsentirety.)
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Deputy Clerk. Your
pronunciations of the olelo,pua oleloHawaii were perfect.
Aunty Colettewas our champion, as you heard, our warrior,our aloha aina. Aunty Lori,
see, you made me startcrying. She never minced words. As one friendKevin Chang
shared, she was more directthan most of humanity, and didn'tseem to fear much, if
anyone. And as Uncle Walter stated,she was just no nonsense. Colette Machado
was always thinkingabout the kua aina and protectingour aina. She loved Molokai,of
which she was so protective.She gave voice to those who had no, you know, voice,
our aina, our wai, our reef,kohola.
We often hear community organizers encourage those they mobilizeto letthe anger
and rage in response to injusticeto fueltheirfight,and that'show I remember Aunty
Colette. She was a fighterforour people, especiallythe oppressed and downtrodden,
something she herselffeltas a child.She was a strong administratorof the Officeof
Hawaiian Affairs,and the leader who mentored and upliftedour lahui.Whether itwas
using a thesaurus, or likemyself, in supporting me to serve as the president of our
Hoolehua Hawaiian Civic Club.
She came from a time and a place where you had to fight.She was also no victim.
She was rough and tumble. She was bullheaded and charged likea bull.As you heard
from allthe testifiers,you had to come ready. As Zhan reflected,itwas likesteel
sharpening steel. As a wahine myself, growing up with her as a role-model, also
shaped me intoa stronger person.
As Mr. Chang beautifullycaptured,she was not afraidto dress-down. She could walk
intoany room with a baseball cap, blue mu'umu'u, and localslippers,and dominate
that room. While in her more feistieryears, people may have feared gettinga knuckle
sandwich when she startedpounding on desks. She gained more patience as she got
older. And instead,she might justlower her glasses and gaze out and add something.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 16
like,we'llsee about that,or no be stupid. With Aunty Colette,what you saw iswhat
you got.
One lastquote from Mr. Chang because he justdid such a greatjob. "When you saw
her coming, you knew where she was coming from. Because of that,you could see
the path thatshe was layingand where she was going. There were people who disliked
her,who today likelywalk on the path she helped lay. That'sthe thingabout legends.
Haku Mele Hinaleimoana Wong wrote this in honor of Aunty Colette, (Spoke in
Hawaiian). My sincere condolences Uncle Myron, Aunty Gayla, and the restof the
ohana. I love you folks. And mahalo, Aunty Stacy and Zhan forhelping to share my
leiand aloha with Uncle Myron. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, anyone else would liketo say anything?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. (Spoke in Hawaiian.) On behalf of the East
Maui. ..liketo extend our deepest condolences. ... to the Machado . ..
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair. Such a beautifulremembrance ofa very
special warrior,Ibelieve that she was. I have a experience with Colettethattraveled
through many years ofworking withinthe Democratic Party.And Colettewas a warrior
withinthe Party as well. And through thatexperience, myself and Tony Takitaniv^fere
asked to help Senator Inouye at his Maui Islandserviceafterhe had passed away 12,
in December 17, 2012.
And in2013, Tony and Iwere incharge of this,of hismemorial serviceat Baldwin High
School Auditorium. And Istillremember Tony came up with a listof who should talk
about the Senator? And on thatlistwas prominently ColetteMachado. And Iwillalways
remember, she showed up and with, with a letter,and she read the letterto the
audience. And she said she treasured that letter because when itwas announced that
she would be the Molokai Representative for Senator Inouye, he had gotten a lotof
push-back. But he said to her in that letterthat he stood by her,her strengthand all
the work thatshe had done inbehalfofthe community. And he wanted her to represent
him and to help Molokai through his congressional work. And he wanted her to know
that he stood by her.
Colette read the whole letterwith, with tears in the end. And Ialways remember, she
looked at Tony and said,Ihad to read this.I'vecarrieditwithme allthese years and I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 17
wanted tothank the Senator. And IthinkSenator inouye helped Molokai inmany ways
that was asked for,or demanded, by thiswarrior,or thisperson who loved Molokai. I
also wanted to thank Stacy Crivelloforspeaking up, because Iknow they were friends.
And through my friendshipwith her,Igot to sometimes hear about thiswonderful lady.
So, thank you, everybody. Thank you, Keani, fordoing thisresolution.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else?
Member King, then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'lldefer to Member Molina. Ithink he had his hand up earlier.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Thank you, Member King. Mahalo to our
colleague from Molokai,Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, forthisresolution,which says
itall.Ididn'tknow Ms. Machado as wellas many others,but one, inthe few times that
Iwould bump intoher on Molokai, as well as Maui, she always made you feellikeyou
were family. That's the other side that maybe a lotof people didn'tsee about Colette.
She wasn't the type to go brag about her accomplishments. She justtook whatever
issue,and shejust went to work, because she didn'tneed to brag. Because you know,
when you have someone that can get the United States Navy to listento you, that
speaks volumes. But she was trulya champion in every sense of the word, a role-
model, 1 mean, everything that'sbeen said inthe resolutionand from the residentsof
Molokai, and our colleague,Ms. Rawlins-Fernandez, it'strue.You know, thisladywas
certainlya rare,a rare treasure. And she was a champion for allof us here in Maui
County. Allof our prayers and ohana, and prayers to the ohana and everyone else.
And she was reallythe Lord'sgiftto allof us. Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. You know, 1 firstwant to extend my
condolences to Myron and the family. Itwas a shock to hear of Ms. Machado's loss.
But 1want, justin listeningto the testimony today, Ihad simitarexperiences of being
taught a lesson by Colette Machado. And I had met her a couple of times. Ididn't
know her well when I became a County Councilmember in charge of,in my firstyear
of the Planning Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 18
And one of my firstthings Idid,because 1took up the Molokai Community Plan, that
had been laidaside forseveral years by previous Councils. And Iwent to meet with
the community of Molokai. Ithink Keani was there. I know Uncle Walter was there.
Stacy was there.And so,thisismy firstmeeting as a Councilmember on Molokai. And
Ihad spent the entireweekend readingthrough the Molokai Community Plan,which is
about, Ithink itwas about three-inches thick back then. So, was Iglad that Icame to
that meeting prepared, as people talked about, you know, people expect you to be
prepared. But Iremember justa lotof questions about the plan and a lotof concern
fordifferentaspects of the plan.
But the one person who got up and pounded her fistand yelled about the delay was
Colette Machado. And as a new Councilmember, I'msittingthere and she was railing
on how, and not,not me personally,but the Council and how dare we had set itaside
for so long. And I remember thinkingto myself, itwas a great lesson, because I
remember thinkingto myself, you know, Icould sithere and could say it'snot my fault
and I'm a new Councilmember, or 1 could just take responsibility, because now I
represent the Council and we can move forward. And that'swhat she taught me. I
took responsibilityand Isaid,you were right,let'smove forward, let'sget thisdone now
that !'m here, and let'sallwork together. So, that was my, one of my greatest
experiences with her because she justkind of relaxed,and Icould see a levelof respect
in her eyes, which Istilltreasureto thisday.
Ihad actuallymet with Unde Walter earlierinthe day and talkedto him about the plan,
too. So, I,Iunderstand what a great loss itisto the community of Molokai. And Ijust
want to add my condolences to everybody. Thank you, Keani, forbringingthisforward,
and, and greatestcondolences to you, too. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anyone else? Ifnot. Members, are you ready to vote for the
resolution? Allthose infavor,please say "aye" and raiseyour hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; All"ayes' zero "noes"; motion carries. Nine "ayes". Thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 19
CHAIR LEE; Oh, wait a minute. Ithink Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernand ez isgoing to introduce
some people inthe chamber?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.They are not inthe chamber. They're
at home on Molokai.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And Aunty Stacy and Zhan should be there to give
leion behalf of the Council. And thisisUncle Myron Akutagawa. Aloha, Uncle Myron,
mahalo for being with us today. And Aunty Gayla, Ithink isover there.
CHAIR LEE; Are they at the DistrictOffice?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; They're on video. Mahalo, Aunty Stacy.
MS. GAYLA ANN HALINIAK-LLOYD; Oh, Keani, Uncle Myron going say a few words.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, we'd liketo inviteUncle Myron to share some
mana‘0. Aloha, Uncle Myron.
MR. MYRON AKUTAGAWA; Aloha. Thank you so much for thisresolution. Thank every
one of you. Bless allof you. And ... Ipray, Ipray Molokai willfighton. ... Molokai
willfighton. That isstrong people over here and her legacy willlive.Thank you so
much. Icannot thank you guys enough. Thank you, Keani. The restof you, mahalo
Ke Akua.
MS. HALINIAK-LLOYD; Good job,Uncle.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Uncle Myron. We love you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you so much. Thank you.
Did you want to introduceanyone else,Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aunty Gayla, did you want to say a few words? You
don't have to.
MS. HALINIAK-LLOYD; Okay. No, no thank you. But thanks. Everybody, thisissomething
special. Iwas yellingat Uncle thismorning, you know, about itstartsat9;00,you better
hurry up. And kind of when sound likeAunty Colette. I'mon him every time that'swhy.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 20
Since she not here, me and my sistertaking care of him. So, insteadofAunty now, we
his boss.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Aunty Gayla, for helping to make this
happen this morning and for being with us. Mahalo, again, Aunty Gayla and
Uncle Myron. Our love to you guys.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha to everyone there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any, any other comments or questions? Ifnot,we're going to move
on at this time.
Mem, Vice, Vice-Chair. Mr. Clerk, Consent Calendar.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on the settingofthe Consent
Calendar. Chair, there are, there are no individuals signed up to testifyon the setting
of the Consent Calendar, but we willdo a last call. Ifthere isanybody who wants to
testifyon this,please identifyyourselfnow. This isthe lastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, Chair,justto confirm,there isno one who wishes to testify
on the settingof the Consent Calendar. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and writtentestimonyforthe setting
of the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at this time, we willset the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can stillbe adjusted even afteritisset. Are there any requested changes to
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 21
the Consent Calendar at thistime? No? Alright.Are there any objections to setting
the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: And ifthere are no objections,the Consent Calendar isset.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
remaining agenda items. At thistime, individualsmay testifyon allremaining agenda
items. Testimony willalso be allowed before each section of today's agenda, so
individualscan choose to instead testifyduring the testimony period before the
appropriateagenda section. Individualswho do not indicateto staffwhen they would
liketo testifywillbe calledduring thistestimony period.
Chair,the firstperson we have signed up to testifyisCullen Bell,inthe chambers. To
be followedby EricMiyasato. Cullen Bell,itisyour time totestify.We've been informed
thatyou are here inthe chambers. Oh, he's not availableat the moment, but we will
returnto him. Then, the next individualsigned up to testifyisEricMiyasato.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk,how many testifiersdo we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,forthistestimony period,we currentlyhave 67 individuals
signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members, before proceeding, you know, last,atthe lastCouncil meeting,
July 1, we had about, approximately 44 testifiers.And as you know, we went past
midnight. So, thistime, we need to, we're, we're a work in progress with the new
Sunshine Laws. So, I'mgoing to ask you to tryand limityour questions,as faras the
time goes. So, before proceeding. I'dliketo notifyyou that I'llbe enforcing Council
Rule 9.F, "no Member may speak more than twice on any pending motion." Members
may speak fortwo minutes during the firstopportunityto speak on a motion. But as
far as asking questions, Iwould reallyappreciate itifyou would limityourselfto one
minute, ifit'spossible. Otherwise, itcan go on forever.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Irespectyour proposed rules.Just
something to consider lateron. As you know, lastCouncil meeting got,Ibelieveitwent
up to 5:00 justcompleting publictestimony,and then of course, we went to midnight.
Something to put out there for you and the Members to consider,maybe we look at
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 22
doing a recess. Complete testimony today and possiblycome back next week, you
know, depending how farwe go with testimony as well. But I'mjustputtingitout there,
possiblyconsider doing testimony today, then recessing itto next week. So, to avoid
having to go midnight or maybe even intoSaturday morning. But, cause Iknow there's
a lotof staff,we have to consider their needs and everyone else. But anyway, I'llleave
itup to you and the body. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. The problem, the problem we have, some items are time sensitiveand,
and must be passed today. So, that'sthe issue,the Charter amendments, inparticular.
And so, I,I'drather not do anything to prevent us from moving these things forward.
So, ifwhat we'lltryto do istryto make sure thatthe,we'llkeep good time,you know,
we'llringthe bellwhen we're supposed to ringthe belland ask the testifiersto tryand
be as succinct as they can be. And the Members, I think,I think a lotof time, the
Members have too much discussion with the testifiers. So, ifwe can eliminate some
of that,Ithinkwe're going to save a lotof time. So, I,Iwish, ifwe didn'thave time
sensitive items, I would gladly take your suggestion. But because of the Charter
amendments, itwould be difficult.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any other comments or questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then Member Kama.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, during Budget session, when we
had a long listof testifiers,we did,as you're suggesting we do today,which islimitour
questions to clarifyingquestions only. And I believe we did likea minute or two
minutes. And once the timer went, that was itas far as questions fortestifiers,cause
that'sthe partthattook the longest at our lastCouncil meeting. Iwould be happy to
support thiseffortby showing my timer,as Idid during Budget, to show thatyou have
thirtyseconds leftto complete on the screen. Ithinkthat was helpfulfor everyone to
know where they were. So, ifyou'd likeforme to do this,Ican help inthatway.
CHAIR LEE: Members, you need that? You want that? Okay, any objectionsto having the
Vice-Chair,would show you the,how much time isleft?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you foryour suggestion, Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 23
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; You're welcome, Chair. And justto clarifyagain,the
testifiers would have their three minutes and the Clerk would take care of that. The
timer would be on us as the Councilmembers to limitourselves. Okay. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Right. Okay, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Chair. I wonder, since you have over
60 testifiers,ifyou have considered, ifthe Members would, that testimony would be,
instead of three minutes, two minutes per testimony? No? Any comment about that.
Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Well, you know. I'mthinkingthatlet'stryitthisway first.And if,my thinkingis
that ifwe, ifwe controlour discussion,thatcould possibly cut down a lotof time, rather
than taking time from the testifiers.But if,forsome reason, the testifiersare taking too
long,then we'llmake an adjustment.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: The, the otherthingwe can do iswe can take,we can take up the time sensitive
items today.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Yes.
CHAIR LEE: That'sthe otherthingthatwe can do. But we won't know ifwe don'tstart.Okay
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Two things. One, I,I,three minutes
is already a short amount of time, so Idon'tsupport any less than three minutes for
publictestifiers.Two, once we startwith whether it'sgoing to be three minutes or two
minutes, we cannot change midway. Ithas to be consistentthe whole way through.
So, Iwould support stickingwith three minutes.
And I agree with you. Chair, that it's,it'safterthe three minutes, the discussion that
takes much, much longer,which iswhy we did itthatway during budget and itreally
helped. But we, we can'ttake action on somethings and not allthings,because we
would need to adjourn the meeting inorder forthat actionto take effect.And then, if
we don't take action on the remaining things,then we would have to repost for,you
know, the sixdays required notice. So, I,Imean, you'rewelcome to,you know, invite
one of our OCS attorneysto chime inon that,but thatismy understanding of us being
able to take action or not on things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 24
CHAIR LEE: We're looking for solutions,that'swhat we’re looking for. And so, ifit'snot
possible,it'snot possible. But we need to explore what the options are.
So, David Raatz, are you on the call? What are our options going forward? We're
anticipatinga very long meeting. No one wants to stay here tillaftermidnight again.
So, Mr. Raatz, do you have any suggestions?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Thank you, Chair.
Unfortunately,we don'tsee any obvious solutions.Ithinkthe Vice-Chairlaidout some
of the concerns that staffwas just discussing behind the scenes, that for action to
actuallytake effectand be certifiedby the County Clerk,the meeting has to adjourn.
Allwe can thinkof isperhaps ifthe County Clerk has any discretionon the previously
stated July 15 deadline forCharter amendments. That's,that'snot the legaldeadline.
Ibelieve the Officeof Elections has set up a legaldeadline forballotquestions forthe
General Electionsometime inlateAugust. But there are a lotof logisticaland practical
measures that have to be taken place to get the ballotsready by thatlegaldeadline,
which iswhy the County Clerk identifiedtoday'smeeting as the deadline forCharter
amendments. But 1don't know ifit'spossible to extend that by a few days and stillbe
able to get inthe General Electionballots.
CHAIR LEE: Ithinkthatquestion was asked before. That questionwas asked before. And
it,Ibelieveitwas likeTuesday or Wednesday of next week was the finaldeadline. So,
I'm not sure. I'm going to calla short recess so we can lookat what'sscheduled for
next week and check with the County Clerk to findout exactlywhat isthe finaldeadline,
okay? Members, shortrecess. Ten minutes,so returnat 10:27.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:16 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:30 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of July 15, 2022, please reconvene. Alright,Members,
before we starttestimony,we can recess thismeeting, if,if,ifthe testimony goes too
long,we can recess the meeting and reconvene earlynext week, before the actual
deadline. So, it'llbe Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday, butwe have to pollyou firstto
findout which day. And so,we'llprobablydo thatduringthe lunchbreak orsomething
like that.
Member Paltin,what is this for?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 25
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I'm already booked allthose days. And then, I'm going to
the NACo on Wednesday. We get the Maui MetropolitanPlanning, right? Yeah, so
get meetings allthose days before going.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Our meeting isat 9:00,Chair,MPO.
Member King,then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, it'svery confusing. Chair,just looking at the calendar,
Monday at 10:00 a.m. isthe Council Chair'smeeting. So, ifeveryone has thaton their
calendar,\A/ecould possiblyuse thatforthe continuationofthismeeting, insteadofthe
Chair'smeeting. That startsat,that'son the,my calendar from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin,you had, you weren't coming to the Chair's meeting?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, that'sone ofthe meetings Iwas referringto. But I'mbooked
allthose two days.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But thatwas one of the meetings.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Monday at 10 isprobably a good time foreverybody because it'sthe
Chair's meeting, which we can always postpone, yeah?
Alright,Member Kama, you had your hand up. And then. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair. Iwas going tosay I'mgoing tothe NACo Conference
too and I'm leaving on Tuesday. So, Monday's a perfectday to have our continued
meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci,then Member Johnson, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I'mokay with Monday morning. Chair. Ibelieve the MPO was
at 2:00 p.m.?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. It'smy understanding that the
Waiopuilani [sic]project'sdeadline isthe 17, which is a Sunday. So, we'd have to
make an action on ittoday ifwe're going to . . . But that'sjustone of,that'sdifferent
than with the Charter amendments. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 26
CHAIR LEE: Ooh, Ididn'trealizeitwas on the 17th. Okay, back tothe drawing board Iguess
but we'll think about that.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, Ijustwanted to clarifythat the Maui MPO meeting
isat 2:00. Itisa specialmeeting thatwe're callingjust so that we have utilizationof
Federal funds thatState DOT isasking us to callthismeeting. So, it'stime sensitive
and it'salready set. I'llwait formore discussion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: But ifworse came toworse, you,you couldgavel inand gavel out for,you know.
Idon'tthinkour meeting isgoing to,the actualmeeting isgoing to take thatlong. From,
you know, especiallyifwe startat 10:00,we'llprobably be done by 2, my guess. But
we have, yes, Ms. Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, ifyou do that,Iwillbuy everybody lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that would be nice.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Cause my MPO meeting isimportant. Ifyou would, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: You didn't,you didn'thave your hand up?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But I, I do have a solution to, for
consideration. Because I'm in the chambers and I know you're under the weather,
would you, do you thinkthatitwould be helpfulifIchairedthe publictestimonyportion?
And then, Ican do the timer and 1can calleveryone up, and we can go through itjust
likebudget.
I didn't.
CHAIR LEE: Well, thank you, but I,I'm feelingfine. I'm feelingfine. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina, and then back to Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thanks, Chair. No, just wanted to letyou know I'm
availableMonday. That's fineforme.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 27
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Justa clarifyingquestion. Ifwe go on Monday, we
stillnot closingpublictestimony and there stillcan be more people signing up to give
publictestimony on Monday because they can give testimony before each item,so the
listcould grow even longer because it'llbe open allthistime?
CHAIR LEE; Our thinkingisthatmost people are prepared to testifytoday, and we'llletthem
go, you know, as much time as ittakes. We’ll letthem go. You're right,we cannot
close testimony. However, whomever testifiestoday cannot testifyon Monday, the
meetings on Monday. Okay, that'sthe thinking.Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; The State Legislaturedid thisto us. I'mthe only one who opposed itand here
we are, stuck.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; The testimony willremain open ifanyone who hasn'ttestified
today wanted to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Yes, only forthose who didn'ttestify.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Only for those who didn'ttestify.But, okay, so now that takes care of that
problem, but itdoesn'ttake care of Mr. Johnson's problem.
Let's,David? David?
Mr. Johnson, isthat deadline a hard deadline? Are you absolutely sure that is the
deadline?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; That is from Mr. Raatz. But ifyou want to bring him on the
call,we certainlycan.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Raatz? Mr. Raatz?
Okay, Members, we're justusing up too much time rightnow. We're going to have to
take care of this a littlelater.
Mr. Clerk,let'sproceed with testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 28
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony. The firstindividualwe
have signed up to testifyis Cullen Bell,in the chamber. To be followed by Eric
Miyasato.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. CULLEN BELL (testifying on Resolution No, 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha, Council Chair. Thank you. I'm here to testifyregarding Charter amendment,
Resolution 22-119. I'm in support of Resolution 22-119 to establishan East Maui
Community Regional Board. Ibelievethe board should be electedby the people and
by the farmers from thisregion. This Ibelieve isa step inthe rightdirectionto start
working our way back from over a hundred years of mismanagement, to be honest,
theftby corporationsthat don't have our best interestin mind and corporationsthat
have slowed our streams to a trickle for decades.
Hawaii State Constitution, Article 11, Section 1 states allpublicnaturalresources are
held in trustby the State forthe benefitof the people; not held in lease by foreign
interestforthe benefitof said foreign interest.I'm paraphrasing but the same Article,
Section 7 says thatthe State isalso obligatedto protectand regulatethe use of our
water resources, this includes watersheds and natural stream environments.
Take a drive around Maui. Tell me what is natural about any streams you come across
being bone dry? Igrew up in lao Valley and my familystillhas propertyup there.The
only time Isee the riverreach close to the elevationitshould be at isduring a storm.
The mismanagement of our waters iswhy we're allhere today,or some of us are here
today. With thisresolution,we'llat leasthave a seat atthe tableand not have our East
Maui Watershed managed by a corporationand a foreigninterest.
On a side note, Ifeelthere's no excuse for Councilmembers not being here,especially
ifyou can be here through Zoom. And I'mshocked at the amount of back and forthit
goes intohaving juststartinga testimony. No wonder nothing ever gets done here.
It'smind-blowing to me. But thank you foryour time. Mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE; Can we have the next testifier,please?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individualsign up to testifyis Eric Miyasato, to be
followed by David Dorn.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 29
CHAIR LEE: Eric?
MR. ERIC MIYASATO rtestifyinaon BillNo. 21 CD1 EDI (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Council. My name isEricMiyasato. I'm a licensed professional
engineer and Iam inthe lightingindustry.1would liketo testifyagainst Bill21, CD1. I
would liketo suggest thatthe billgo back to committee and have design professionals,
engineers and architectsand environmentalist work together to drafta betterlighting
ordinance for Maui.
Currentlyas you can see, Iam illuminatedunder amber LED light.This isone of the
sources thatwould comply with the less than two percent blue-lightcontent. Because
it'sAloha Friday,I'm wearing my Aloha shirt.I'm also drinkinga Starbucks with my
green logo. 1have my Baldwin Bears baseball cap, and Ihave two cars. Prettyhard
to tellthe colors under. .. Let me turn offthe light,and letyou see how 1look under a
normal light.
So, Iwant you to please consider the cost implicationsforthe people of Maui when
voting on thisbill.Thank you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I'lltryand stay inmy one minute.
Mr. Miyasato, the billallows LED, . . . colored amber, narrow-beam amber, low-
pressure sodium lights;so, do you have samples ofthose other lights?And also,have
you checked the Floridalistof lessthan two percent blue content lightingforitswildlife
lightingcertificationprogram where there are over 40 lightsinjustone category listed?
MR. MIYASATO: So, the sample that I have shown isa narrow-beam amber. I have read
the FloridaFish and Wildlife,you know, ordinance, inregardto ... 1attended seminars
at lightingconventions in regard to that ordinance. I don't have samples of the
phosphorous coated amber and Idon'thave a working sample of a filter...but the
one 1 do have is the narrow beam amber.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Time's up. Thank you very much.
MR. MIYASATO: Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 30
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up totestifyisDavid Dorn, to be followed
by Lindsey Rex.
MR. DAVID DORN Testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hello,Councilmembers. My name isDavid Dorn. I'velivednext to 16 East Waipu'ilani
for over twenty years, and I oppose the Hale Waipu'ilaniProject. I'veexperienced
many floods while livingin thisarea and I believe that thisprojectwillmake flooding
worse. We shouldn'tbe buildingmore houses in Kihei’sworst floodzone. There are
betterplaces to buildhousing away from flood plainsand coastal hazards. Kihei has
an aging infrastructure,bad traffic,and lack of area drainage. This localarea has no
storm water drainage at alland isknown to flood.
As you know, thisdeveloper has been offered a land swap. The County has begun
discussing a land swap ina more suitablelocation.There are 1200 home sitesjustup
the hillinthe R&T Park, land by the Police Station,Maui Lani, and Puunene. These
are places where the new housing should be located. Itisup to the County to decide
who and what you want to protect. Sites such as 16 East Waipu'ilanido not have to
meet the specific.. .Army Corps of Engineers wetland criteriato be important to the
watershed.
Iask thatthispropertybe put intoconservation and saved from development. Please
keep thispropertyas is. Preserving thislothas many benefitsfrom area drainage,will
not increase flooding and will not overburden the local community or its aging
infrastructure.
And as a reminder, thisCouncil has no obligationto approve thisproject,but you do
have an obligationto protectthe current residentsand tryto make our community safe
and free from risk. There are 2500 affordable homes in the pipeline,so disapproving
this project willhave a negligibleimpact on affordable housing. Disapproving this
28 unitprojectwillhave about a one percent reduction of houses inthe pipeline.
The decision you make today must consider how you can do the leastharm and do the
most good? This Council has a legalduty and moral obligationto protectthe safetyof
the community and the responsibilityto ensure that future homes are only located in
safe places. Irespectfullyask thatyou disapprove thisprojectand set us on a path to
a better,safer future. Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 31
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair,you'remuted.
CHAIR LEE: Questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifieris actuallyLucienne de Naie, to be
followed by JillWirt. Lucienne de Naie, to be followed by JillWirt.
MS LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on County Communication No. 22-167: Committee
Report Nos. 22-61, 22-63, 22-64, & 22-65: Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FD1,
22-144 CD1 FD1, & 22-173: and BillNos. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022). 114(2022), 115(2022),
& 116 (2022)1:
Good morning again. Iwillbe testifyingon a few items,and Iwillnottake threeminutes
foreach. Bless you folksforyour dedicationto reallyhearing from the public.Those
items Iwillbe testifyingon firstwillbe on behalf of the SierraClub Maui Group as its
Chair, our board has recommended thatwe weigh-in on these items today.
First,item 22-119, second and finalreading forthe Maui Community Water Authorities.
We are very strong support ofthis.We have gone on recordwiththe many reasons in
the past,so we willnot take up your time repeatingthese. But itisobvious thatnew
times reallyrequirenew solutions.And Iknow there are greatfearsabout cost,but I
think that it'simportant to understand that the authorityitselfdoes not have to
immediately take over and manage an entiresystem. Itcan firstjustbe the holderof
the leases thatpass through the system and graduallywork to acquirethe easements
and otherthingsthatare needed totransportwater. Whoever holdsthe leasewillhave
the attention of the landowner that holds some of the system conveyances. And so
there willbe negotiations,and there willbe agreements worked out.
Moving on to 22-167, we support the necessary amendments to the community water
authoritythat were worked on so diligentlyduring the lastmeeting of the County
Council.
Moving on to 22-144, thisisa Charter amendment forestablishingregionalplanning
The Sierra Club also stands in support of this very innovativecommissions,
proposition, itwas inthe 1970s when the City and County of Honolulu realizedthat
they reallyneeded to hear from theirspecificcommunities. Our islandisbiggerthan
Oahu, and we do have very,very unique regions in Maui Island.And we do need to
plan fora way forthe people to be involvedinthe planning.Inthe end, itwillprobably
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 32
expedite how decisions are made, because people willnot have to ask so many
questions,they willknow the land thatthey are being asked to consider.
Ipersonallyserved on a regionalplanning commission. Itwas an extremely rewarding
experience, and itwas very necessary inthe very diverse County of San Diego, where
you had from the mountains to the seas. There were not conflicts.Our regionwas
one coastalpartof San Diego. There were regionalplanningcommissions forother
coastalparts.We worked out any ofthe overlap or differences.There are ways to do
that.
Moving on to Bill21, the lightingbillto help protectour seabirds.We do feelthatthe
Committee and the Council have made very, very involved effortsto tryto hear from
everybody and okay a spectrum of lightingthat meets the criteriaof protectionfor
wildlife,but also allows a wide commercial choice to our businesses. Also exemptions
do appear to have been made to ease any hardshipon smallerusers.We do urgethe
Council to move forward and pass Bill21 today.
And then last but not least on behalf of the Sierra Club, resolution[sic]22-61, the
proposalto approve development inthe Waipu'ilani,the Hale Waipu'ilanidevelopment.
Iknow the people who are proposingthisdevelopment. They aregood people.Thisis
justa very bad place,and a bad precedent to keep allowingdevelopmentson flood
zones and uncategorizedwetlands isjustpoor planning.There isa bettersolution.
We discussed itduring the general plan advisorycommittee meetings,and thatisto
transferdevelopment rightsto other parcels.We do nothave an ordinancethatallows
that,butthe County could at leastpropose landswaps. Itisour understandingthatthe
County has landinPuunene thattheygotfrom A&B. Itisnearinfrastructure.
The County does not own land inthe high-techpark,butthatlandisfullyentitledfor
housing,formany unitsofhousing. One affordablehousingprojecthas boughtinthere
isunder constructionnow. Perhaps the County could lookatjustpurchasinga second
parcel,maybe itcould be fiveacres,insteadof 1.5acresand thisprojectcouldactually
expand? Butwe need todo something elsebesidesbuildinginflood-proneareas.We
need to leave them as partof our resiliencystrategy.
And Iwillmove on to the other items that I'm testifyingon personallyand shout-outto
the funding forrenovationsforthe Council Services area. CouncilmemberKingisso
correct,these are the unsung heroes. Iworked fortheCounty,Iwas down on the7th
floorgettinghelp allof the time when Iwas an aide to a Councilmember. They are
crammed inthere and gettinga lotof work out a very smallspace. So, anythingthat
we can do to make that betterisreallygood.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 33
As a privateindividual,I am testifyingin support of 22-63; thisisthe expansion of
homeowners' exemption to allow exemptions for those who are doing long-term
rentals,as well as increasing homeowner exemptions forfolks,because guess what?
Allof our propertyisbeing evaluated at higher ratesfrom nothingwe did,justbecause
the market is,you know, on firebecause of speculation.
And Iam also personallyinsupport of item 22-64; thisisthe property tax reduction for
severely disabled veterans and theirspouses. This isthe leastwe can do.
Iam personally insupport of the appointment of Kahulu Maluo-Pearson to the Cultural
Resources Commission. The Lindsey family,she isa part of,she and her sisterand
her mom have contributedso much to our knowledge of Hawaiian culture.And Ithink
that she willbe a good additionto the CulturalResources Commission.
And lastly,item 22-173, you have a very good starton some folksthatcan be partof
the planning process forthe upcoming community plan update forSouth Maui. Thank
you foryour diligentreview of the 38 applicants. Itdoes show thatthere isinterestin
being partof planning decisions,when people feelthey can have an impact, and Ijust
urge you to look forfolkswho have the time to serve.
Having served on the General Plan Advisory Committee, which met on and offforover
three years, although our term was only sixmonths, 1was one of the people thatreally
appreciated those who consistentlyshowed up so we could have quorum and do our
business. So, do make sure thatthe people who are volunteeringto serve actually
have the time,commitment, and mahalo forallyour considerationsand forallyou do.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisJillWirth, to be
followed by Nathan Strubhar.
MS. JILL WIRT (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Good morning. Council Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Councilmembers. I'm JillWirt, and I am a projectmanager for Maui Nui Marine
Resource Council.
Like many in our community, the Maui Nui Marine Resource Council recognizes the
need for workforce housing. However, the proposed Hale Waip'uilani housing
development is in an ecological significantarea that serves an important role in
protectingcoral reefs,ocean water qualityinthe coastalareas of North Kihei.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 34
As you know the Kihei reefhelps protectSouth Maui's shores from storm surges and
erosion. The Kihei reef tract has also been identified as an important source of coral
larvaeforthe reefsofMaui County, especiallythose of Molokai. Inother words, Kihei’s
reef help seed reefsthroughout Maui Nui so they can grow and be replenished. What
you decide about Hale Waipu’ilaniwillhave a significantimpact on the futureof corals
in Kihei and Maui Nui.
Let'stalkabout Waipu'ilantGulch, with originatesin the moku of Kula. When itrains
Upcountry, stormwater flows from this extremely large watershed area through
Waipu'ilaniGulch pickingup speed and sediment along the way. Fortunately,when
thisfast-moving storm water hitsthe floodplain,that'smakai of the highway, itslows
down, loses energy, and spreads out inthe widening partofthe stream bed. Tons of
soilcarriedby the water can then settleonto the ground. This protectsthe coralreef
by keeping sediment out of ocean. Excess sediment isvery harmful to coralreefs,
interferingwiththe coral'sabilityto generate food forthemselves and to reproduce. If
Hale Waipu'ilaniisbuilt,we would lose the floodplainand the filteringand the flood
preventionitprovidesto the detrimentofthe community and the corals.
The proposed housing should not be builtinthisenvironmentallysignificantarea. We
support a land swap with the developer, through which the County would trade some
of itsown lands thatare more suitableforhousing inexchange forthe Waipu'ilaniGulch
land.Thiswillallowthe County toenhance the Waipu'ilanifloodplaintofurtherimprove
itsabilityto hold and filterstormwater run-offto protectcoralsinKihei'scoastalareas.
There's potentiallya large-scalefinancialsupportfortheseenhancements, as well.As
a startMaui Nui Marine Resource Council is in receipt of a $225,000 grant from the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for a site assessments and preliminarydesigns
for nature-based solutionsfor the floodplainof Waipu'ilaniGulch, as well as the
Kulanihakoi and Keokea Gulches to prevent coastal flooding and sediment runoff.
These, thisgrant isa pipelinegrant,meaning there willbe futureopportunitiestoapply
for next steps,includingpermitting,design, and buildingor installingthe nature-based
solutions,which could equal millionsof dollarscoming intoMaui County.
However, some of thispossiblefloodpreventionwork would become impossibleifthe
Waipu'ilanifloodplainis developed. The coral reefs,ocean water qualityand the
community of North Kiheiwould suffer.Please expedite the effortto createthisland
swap and allowthe County to keep thissectionofWaipu'ilaniGulch as open space as
a step towards protectingthe coralreefsof the Kiheireeftract.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 35
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisNathan Strubhar in
the chambers, to be followed by Edward Field.
MR. NATHAN STRUBHAR (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
MR. STRUBHAR: Iam thisday a concerned citizen.Thank you again for pronouncing my
lastname correctly.I'malways impressed with people who can do that.I'mwanting
to testifyon the Resolution 22-119. Iam a father,and Iam a husband. Ihave been
married for 17 years and Ihave come to realizethatwhen Iam, when Iam weak for
my family,my familysuffers.I am the head of my household. Iserve my familyas
best as I can, and so I'm asking you guys, as elected officials,and members of the
Maui ohana, our family,thatyou representour needs and our concerns well.And so,
one of the things that my community callsme is an encourager. And so, Iwant to
encourage you guys to stand up forus concerning thiswater authority.
We do not need itto be inthe hands of a foreigncorporation.We don't.That does not
serve us well. And when we are not served well by you guys, we suffer. Allof us
suffer.Our ohana suffer.Our community sufferand we are tiredof suffering.We are
tiredof it.And so, like1said inmy lasttestimony on July1,1was a civilianon the island
of Maui not caring about what localgovernment did. Because itreallydidn'taffectme
untilthe lastcouple of years, Istartedrealizingthatour electedofficialsmade a huge
difference in how we lived our lives and how we ran our businesses.
And so, may 1 remind you thatyou work for us, you work forallof us,okay? We are
asking kindlyrightnow, we're asking kindly,to stand up forus. Iwillsay thatwe have
been awakened to what's happening in our governments, from allthe way to the
Federal, down to the State,down to the County level.We're awake and we're notgoing
anywhere. We're going to be relentlessin how we take care of our familiesand
especiallyour islandand so Iask thatyou willdo the same. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just one question, ifyou can.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 36
MR. STRUBHAR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you forbeing here. Ireallyappreciate your testimony. So,
we're going to tryto get thison the ballotand then willyou and allthe others be there
to,that'sthe firststep to help us.
MR. STRUBHAR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Help us get thatthrough, through on electionday.
MR. STRUBHAR: Yes, please,that'swhat I'm insupport of yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Great, awesome.
MR. STRUBHAR: Yeah. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? Ifnot,may we have the nexttestifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Edward Field,to be
followed by Jimmy Gomes.
Edward Field,itisyour time to testify.Isee an Ed connected tothe meeting. You're
unmuted but we cannot hear you ifyou'respeaking.
Chair, perhaps they'rehaving technicaldifficulties.Shallwe move on to the next
testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, the next testifieris Jimmy Gomes, to be followed by
Amanda Martin.
Jimmy Gomes, itisyour time to testify.Chair,Idon'tsee a Jimmy Gomes connected
to the meeting, shallImove on to the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then, the next testifieris Amanda Martin,to be followed by
Kimberly Brown.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 37
MS. AMANDA MARTIN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha and good morning, Chair Lee. Can you hear me? Because I cannot, uh. the
video won't work.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we can hear you. Thank you.
MS. MARTIN: Okay. Mahalo. So, good morning again,Vice-Chair Lee, Chair Lee and Vice-
I'm Amanda Martin,Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
Administrative Assistant of Na Moku ‘Aupuni ‘o Ko'olau Hui. I‘m here today inbeautiful
Keanae with couple of my board members, so mahalo guys forbeing here withme and
we are insupport of Council Resolution 22-119, CD1, FD1.
For over 30 years of fightingallof the powers thatbe, the State,County, laborunions,
big corporations,theirvast network of supporters, here we are again today. The
dewatering of the streams deprived ailthe people of East Maui and greatlyimpacted
allof our communities. Itwas so heartbreakingformany not to see water inthe rivers.
They divertedthe entireEast Maui, the largestdiversionsever. These are crown lands
that belong to the people.
We need to gain controlover our water rights.Hawaii's publictrustresourcesshould
be controlledby Hawaii. A foreignfor-profitentityshould notbe managing orcontrolling
our water in East Maui. They willmanage itintheirown best interestand not inthe
interestof the County, nor the publictrust.They are responsibletotheirshareholders
to make a profit.
There is plenty of water for everyone ifthe system is fixed and the watershed is
managed properly.We want to be sure thatwe focus on growing our water supplyfor
futuregenerations.
We have the the expertiseand the in-depthknowledge thatcan properlymanage the
watershed and efficientlyrestore the ecosystem. We have the most hands-on
experience and generationalknowledge of anyone involvedand needed to properly
manage the watersheds.
What we want iscommunity partnership,management, and stewardship.It'sbeen four
years since streams were restoredinour moku and we have done everythingwithin
our power and means to be good stewards. This isnot a business propositionforus,
but one of sacred kuleana.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 38
Please understand we have no quarrelwith company operatives on the ground and
our community currently has good relationshipswith representatives from the
company. Like Maui County, we support agricultureand want to see everyone
succeed. We have never denied any farmer or business the access to water.
The time isnow to control,take control of our water. Our community's mission isto be
good stewards of the land and itsresources. We want a seat at the table. We remain
open to working with allofthe stakeholders to move forward ina pono way.
Ican imagine how some of you are feeling,and the decisions thatyou have to make.
Itrulydo understand what ittakes inmaking the best qualifieddecisionforall.Iknow
thismatter weighs heavy on your heart cause Ifeel ittoo. But please remember the
great impact on our East Maui community, and the 100 percent diversionthattook
place. Mahalo forthe opportunityto testifytoday.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Amanda.
MS. MARTIN: Mahalo. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Kimberly Brown inthe
chambers, followed by Byron Brown.
MS. KIMBERLY BROWN [testifying on County Communication No. 22-167: Resolution
No. 23-119 CD1 EDI: and BillNo. 21 CD1 EDI (2022)1:
Urn, Iwant to firsttouch on Bill21 about the lighting.At justglancing over this,Ido not
want thisto be another financialburden on the taxpayer. Itseems to be a frivolous
expense to replace lightingfixturescountywide and accommodating a lightbulbthatis
being proposed. There are healtheffectson humans with the blue light,or the blue
wave lightand I know there'sother options. Also the potentialincreaseincrime and
the burdensome cost to the taxpayers outweighs these birds.Iwant to lookat humans
first.
In regard to Resolution 22-119, we should not be here talkingabout this.In2019, the
entire community of Maui should have been informed and should have been
celebratingthatthe County forthe firsttime in over 150 years would finallyown the
rightsto thiswater. Our localfarmers would never have toworry again because they
would live,because we livein one of the wettest places inthe world. Our familiesand
childrenshould be celebrating,instead here we are July 15, allowingthe Council to
vote on something thatour Mayor had the abilityto secure three years ago.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 39
I'm saddened that allof us are here today, we've experienced loss, loss of time,
whether itbe from work, from our families,enjoying our wonderful islands,justto be
here today to stand-up forwhat's rightand good. I'm proud of the people of Maui who
are here and on-lineshowing theirvoice of support. And the silverliningin allof this,
isthat it'sreallybringingus alltogether. And again, referencing Nate, we are awake
to the factof the matter of how our government isout of controland we are here to call
you intoaccountability.You work forus.
It'sa once in a generation opportunityto secure controlover the water rightsrather
than a foreignpension fund who has a patternof buying up water rightsatthe detriment
of the countries and the communities. Their best interest isfor profitover the people
of Maui. DLNR, the County, they'resaying thatthe County does not have to compete
against these people. That the County has the higher priorityto the water as a public
water trustover the for-profitentity.
The profitabilityhere based on current usage, the County would have a net profitof
$3 million.Total revenue is5.1 millionbased on the residents,farmers, A&B, and Mahi
Pono. And the operating cost isonly 1.54 million.There's additionalUpcountry water
costs of $528,000, leaving a net revenue of $3 million.The County, ifthe County
obtains these leases, we can utilizethe net revenue to upgrade the systems, creating
additional water for the users and EMI.
Iwant to thank those on the Council who are voting yes to it,and Iwant those who
would ever considerallowingour rightfulwater to fallintothe hands of a foreignentity
to search your hearts,and trulydwell on why you're in thispositionto representthe
people of Maui. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis Byron Brown, to be
followed by Joe Balangitao.
MR. BYRON BROWN [testifyingon County Communication No. 22-167: Committee Report
No. 22-61: Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FD1: and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council. Thank you so much forhaving me. Thank you forallyour time that
you take on a lotofthese issues,itseems to be very time-consuming.Iwant totestify
in regards to the housing plan in Kihei. Ithinkthat area isdefinitelynot an area that
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 40
should be builtin. It'scomplicated obviously,but when you have a flood zone, itgets
even worse.
As for,I believe it's21, the lighting,this is also another complicated issue. We're
dealing withfunding inthe County, and we continue to talkabout how it'smisused and
misappropriated. Ibelieve our funding should be concentrated in the housing region
for our community. We're losingfamiliesvery fastthat were born and raised here,
many generations,because they can'taffordto livehere any longer. That has to get
streamlined and we need to focus on that and make that our main focus.
As for 22-119. This issue here, again, as Kim Brown just mentioned, should never
have been before us. Itshould have been handled already,but itishere now and we're
asking foryour vote yes. And we thank everyone so much thathas voted forthis.And
we want to keep in mind, thatwhen corporationshave control,thisisjustkindof how
thisworks throughout history.
This isdifferentthan the one-year revocable lease,thisisswitchingto 30 years,which
we all know. We all know that in 2021, that A&B and Mahi Pono, according to the
records had finished their SMA report and got, they were working on gettingthat
30-year lease secured. Inthissituation,we have a reallygreatDLNR thatisworking
with the County, thatwants to make sure the County gets theirrightsto thiswater.
So, I think as the Board of Water voted unanimously, that our County should vote
unanimously on thisto show supportforthe community so thatwe can bringback a
littlebitoffaithinour community, inour County, when itcomes to issueslikethis.This
isextremely importantto allof us.
And these corporationsjustrecently,ifyou guys, Iencourage you to lookitup. But in
December of2020, they have filedforfuturestocktradingon ...commodities. Thank
you very much foryour time. Idon'tknow ifthatwas my time...butanyways, in2020
December they filedwiththe stockmarkets totradewateras a commodity and so this
iscoming our way. And as drought conditionsget worse, water getsmore expensive.
A&B owes Mahi Pono $62 millionifthey don't secure this30-year lease. That'sa big
incentiveforallof you guys to get pushed to help them out. Iencourage you to help
us out and our community and stand up for us, because we win ifthe people win.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 41
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individualwe have signed up to testifyis Joe
Balangitao inthe chambers, to be followed by Christopher George.
MR. JOE BALANGITAO [testifyingon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning. My name isJoe Balangitao,Jr.,1 am the Executive Directorfor the
Maui InterscholasticLeague. ! am here to testifyagainst Bill21, because itis,itis
vague and could affectthe livelihoodof about 4,000 student athletes in the MIL, ifit
were to pass.
We offer19 sportsinthe Maui InterscholasticLeague forboth girlsand boys, and ifwe
were to play our games exclusivelyduring the day, itwould put many ofthem at riskof
heat illnessand dehydration. Itwillalso be a financialburden to the league because
we are a 501(c)(3)organizationand we run our league withmonies we collectfrom our
gates from footballand baseball,to support the other 17 sports. Ifwe are not allowed
to play those two sports at night,itwould reduce our gate by about two-thirdsnot to
mention concession, which isa big money maker forthe home team, which isessential
ifthey go to a State tournament.
Our girl,girlsand boys should be affordedthe opportunityto playatnighttoshowcase
theirtalentand may be able to earn a collegescholarshipinsoccer,softball,trackand
field,baseball,and football.Notto mention the opportunitiesforthe band, flagbearers,
cheerleaders,student body, fans and kupuna thatshow up to participateinthe football
games festivities.Ifgames were to be played Saturday afternoon,a lotofthese people
would not show up. Parents take younger siblingsto youth soccer and the student
body and kupuna stay home because of the heat.
I have spoken to a colleague from the Kauai InterscholasticFederation,and he has
filled me in on how shearwater bird have affected their league and when they were
forced to switch from nightto day games. They are requiredto play during the day
from September 15 through December 15, but ifthe fledglingsleave the nest before
then,they allowthe KIF to play a month earlierand push the date to November 15.
My question to the Council is,do you have data to support the year-round ban on
lighting?The billsays nativeFlawaiianseabirds? Allbirds? Albatross? Tropicbird,
shearwater, shorebirds, seabirds, scrub birds? Where are, where are their nesting
grounds? Upcountry,Kihei,East Maui? Isitnext to the ocean, where they get a clear
shot out to the sea?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 42
From time to time, Isee on the news about Kaena Point on West Oahu. Their nesting
grounds are rightnext to the ocean, so Iassume they flystraightout of the nest to the
ocean. I'mforsaving the birdsifthey are indanger, but Ithinkwe need to have some
of these questions answered before we make a hasty decision on spending a lotof
money to retrofitour equipment and lights.Can Ijustfinish?
CHAIR LEE: Joe, you can take a minute to finish.
MR. BALANGITAO; Okay. How many vendors inHawaii has the equipment to fillthe need?
Isaw one vendor on the Big Islandcome on and say he replaced the equipment at one
of the harbors. Are there other vendors who can offer competitive bidding to fulfillthe
needs to,forMaui County ifthe billpasses?
Our young people are our futureleaders,and we should take intoconsiderationthat
they also liveon thisislandand adjusting our way of lifethatcould possibly impact the
livesof our student-athletes,students, parents, and kupuna inMaui County should not
be taken lightly.Iwould humbly ask or humbly suggest to the Counciltotake thisback
to committee for further discussion because of the ramifications of this decision. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Joe, we have questions. There's a questionforyou.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you forbeing here.
MR. BALANGITAO: Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for being here. We did reach out to MIL. and allthe
public and privateschools early on. And justwanted to ask ifyou read the recent
version of the bill?Because itexempts allsporting activities.
MR. BALANGITAO: Yes, we did.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, itwillnot close down your evening games.
MR. BALANGITAO: Well, we did,we did read itand, urn, Ijustgot wind of thisabout three
weeks ago, about a month ago. As you know, three-yearexemption,you know, three
years goes by fast.You know when you look at COVID, COVID isalready28 months,
it'salmost three years.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right,but the billexempts allsportingequip,allsportingactivities
ifthere are no compliant lighting.So, beyond the three years you are exempted unless
there isindustryapproved lightingthatmeets the requirements.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 43
MR. BALANGITAO: Yeah, but you know ...
COUNCiLMEMBER KING: But the intent,the main thing is that the intentwas not to ever
shutdown, it'snot going to create no light,no evening games. So, we do support that.
MR. BALANGITAO: Yeah, but Imean I understand that. But. . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. time's up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, so, you can answer the question and then that'll--
MR. BALANGITAO: Oh, okay. You know some of our AD's are going to come on that
coordinate our sports lateron and they had concerns, you know, about the type of
lightinglikeEricMiyasato showed. About being able to,baseballgame, can you see
a line-drivecoming straightforyour face,or a pop-flythatgoes up above the lightingif
it'sfacingstraightdown because of lightpollution.Those are danger factors,you know.
And soccer,you'regoing totryto head a balland you can'tsee the ball.Or girlssoftball,
same thing,you know, it's,the concerns are safetyforthestudentathletes.And Imean
that's,you know, that'sour, because it'sgoing to affectas you can see in Eric's
illustration,as far as visibility,to see a littleballcoming at you at 100 miles an hour.
That is,that could be dangerous.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Joe. Thank you very much.
MR. BALANGITAO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any otherquestionsfrom the other Members? No?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyisChristopherGeorge
inthe chambers, followed by Rebecca Alexander.
MR. CHRISTOPHER GEORGE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Hello. Thank you, Councilmembers, staff.Thank you forwhat you do. Itdoes seem
to take like a lot of time.
Regarding the water thing,itshould be a no-brainer. The water is a resource,a
precious resource thatwe need to steward, and we don'twant itinthe hands ofother
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 44
people thatare doing itforprofit.You guys are amazing, your terms, but your legacy
willhave thisissue attached to you foreverinthe community. Like Ithinkwe allknow
thatwe don'twant other people to have our water to say whether and how we use the
water and to charge us forthe water thatwe should have free access to use, to utilize.
It'sa big issue.
And in Northwest, likeinWashington, they'realready buying or leasing allthese water
rights.We feelthe weight of what isalready coming upon the world,and we don't,we
want to try and keep some of that nonsense off of our backs here because we're
already suffering.So, please make a good decision about the water thing,itseems
likeit'sprobably in your guys' hands inthe large part. And it'sa reallybig thingand
this is our window, and we don't want to waste it.
We don'twant to lose the opportunityto be able to farm and justbe at peace with at
leastwater, which isa God-given thing here. So, that'sprettymuch allIhave to say.
So many things Iwanted to say. There's so many topics. Icame here, inmy mind I
had so many things Iwant to talkabout, but Ithinkwater it'sa very bigthing.We don't
want to mess around with thatone. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. GEORGE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisRebecca
Alexander, to be followed by Jimmy Gomes.
CHAIR LEE: Is Rebecca on the line or in the chamber?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: She's, I suppose she's unavailable rightnow. Then we'llcall
Jimmy Gomes, to be followed by Edward Field.
MR. JIMMY GOMES (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi,my name isJimmy Gomes, and Iliveat 15 West Waipu'ilaniRoad. I'velivedhere
for73 years. So, I'veseen thisplace beforeanythingwas builtand Iknow the problems
thatwe have. We are livingina floodzone, and Ifeelthat...the buildingthatthey're
tryingtoput up over thereisnot compatibletowhat we, the restoftheneighborsaround
there have. Ifyou don'tgive a damn foryour neighbors,buildsomething likethis.If
you don'tgive a damn forthe people of Maui, you know, thisSMA, thismanagement,
what isthat? I keep forgetting,the special management area assessment variance
that should never be given in a flood zone. We allhave to abide by that.Why didwe
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 45
have specialpermissions? You know, that,that'snot going to do good, allthey want
to do isfast-trackthese things ...
It'snot fair.It'snot fairto residentswho are livinghere. The other thing istoo, what
guarantee do we have that people from the mainland willnot come in and investand
buy up most of these buildings? Ifyou are concerned about people from Maui, this
should be for people from Maui only. Maybe you can include some Oahu, but thisis
Maui's problem. ItisKihei'sproblem. Itshould be Kihei people, Maui people, who are,
there are so many people who need housing and interestrates are going up higher
and higher. Most of these people going to have a hard time to try to get some
money/loans so they can build.
You know, without any storm management for where the water to go, likeIjustsaid,
thisthing isnot,should not have any variances. They have to go through the hearings,
and they have to have the,give the other people a lotof more chance and he should
followthe regulationsand the laws that'son the books. There should be no variance.
Ithinkthey should actuallybuildin another area. And I heard there ispossibilitythat
they have a land swap, they could make a land swap, they should. Because the weight
of thatbuildings,ifyou go two-story,you going to put itdown pillarsinthe ground, and
at sixfeet,even lessthan sixfeet,you hitwater. The weight of the buildingswillslowly
sink,and then what. ..buildingsthatare ... justlikeMaui Sunset. ..have jacks for
lifturn up. Now the same . . . over there even going to be even worse. . . . soil
compaction testand I'msure ifyou make soilcompaction testsit'snot going to pass.
Anyway, I'm against doing that,and puttinganything there. I'm thinkingof allthe
existingresidentsand even ifyou make a parking lot,you'regoing to make ithigher
than the restof the residentsaround there,it'sgoing to floodintotheirareas. And with
no water management. ..you people don'tcare about how ...
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thank you, Mr. Gomes. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Members, do you have any questions forMr. Gomes?
Ifnot. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Real quick,Mr. Gomes. Mahalo for
your testimony thismorning.
The propertythatwe're speaking of isentitledto buildhouses on the propertywithout
any approvals from the Council. Ijustwanted to findout ifyou understood thatthatis
one of the things thatthe property owner can do without the Council'sapproval.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear that,Mr. Gomes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: You can justsay yes or no.
MR. GOMES: ... A normal house isnot,how many unitsisthis? Yeah, it'stoo many units
and itstoo, the weight of the building,two-story at that height and that ground, the
wetness of that ground without even doing a soilcompaction test,which is normally
done.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much foryour answer.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I understand the Dorn's have some
testifiersthere, maybe. I'm having a hard time understanding, maybe they could turn
offtheircamera when they speak forthe next one.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gomes.
Mr. Clerk.
MR. GOMES: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Edward
Field,to be followed by Kalae Martin.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Edward Field itisyour time to testify.Our understanding isthat
you are connected by phone number ending 9445, you're unmuted.
MR. EDWARD FIELD (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
My name isEdward Field.Iwas going to testifyagainstthe proposed Hale Waipu'ilani
project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 47
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak, could you speak a littlelouder?
MR. FIELD: . . . any time the discussion of workplace housing, those who oppose itare
immediately labeled with the derogatory term Nimby. This term of course is used to
attempt to discreditopponents of the project,implying they are stupid,or selfish,or
some privilegedrich,white guys who want to keep .. . Well guess what? People who
oppose the projectaren't...aren'trich,and ifIhad the camera, Iwould show you that
many of us are not exactlyblonde and blue haired. And sometimes those accused of
nimbyism are actuallyrightabout the issue.
Those of us personally affected by the projectmay be able to see thingsthatoutsiders
do not. They might actuallybe able to give a betterview to counter the perspectives
of people likeMr. Carnicelliand Mr. Betsill.People with vested interestwho justmight
avoid giving a complete pictureof the costs and pitfallsof thisproject.You know, the
people making big money offthisthing.
We're a community of people who are attempting to protectour collectiveneighborhood
. . .we're tryingto preserve our shared livingexperience and neighborhood. This is
common ...common spiritof the area thatisat-riskfrom thisproject.
I'm nearly70 years old and I'vegot a bad heart. !can walk out my frontdoor and be
at the proposed sightinlessthan one minute. That the County has sent me no notice
of the proposed project,no noticeof changes to the projectthateven more adversely
affectme. No noticeof informationalmeetings and no noticeof hearings. Everything
I've learned has been second or third hand from other concerned citizens.
When Iattempted to contactthe AffordableHousing Committee to complain about this,
the replywas that Ishould have checked the website again. Really? So, every Maui
citizenshould check every government website every day to see ifthe County actions
willadversely affectthem? You know, thiskind of cover of darkness thing,thisisjust
likethe thirdworld ... not the County of Maui.
Iask sincerelyforthe Councilmembers towork with me tochange this.You know, one
block to the south of my house, the County has already approved another housing
project.Hale o Pi'ikea,and that'llhave 90 one, two, and three-bedroom units,which by
the way doesn't back up to single-familyhouses, backs up to commercial properties
and across the street,backs up to multi-storyapartments. We've already taken our
share in this area . . .
Now with the height ofthe proposed projectand the balconies,residentswillbe looking
down at my yard and bedrooms. Would you likethat,Councilmembers? Would you
vote for that livingin your backyard? Miss Sarah Johnson, would you likesomeone
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 48
looking intoyour daughter's bedroom? Miss Kama, would you likesomeone looking
intoyour granddaughter's bedroom? Ithinknot. Iworked very hard allmy lifeto afford
thismodest home as have my neighbors.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE; Please conclude your testimony,Mr. Fields.
MR. FIELDS: . ..who can't afford attorneys-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Fields,could you please conclude .. .
MR. FIELDS: -big, big contributionsto your campaign.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Fields.
MR. FIELDS; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyisKalae Martin,to be
followed by Scott Martin.
MS. KALAE MARTIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61 and Resolution No. 22-119
CD1 FDD:
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. MARTIN: Okay. Mahalo. My name is Kalae Martin. I'm a kanaka maoli,born on the
islandof Maui. My parents were one of the firstresidentson East Waipu'ilaniRoad.
They've livedthere since 1972. I'm deeply concerned Hale Waipu'ilanihousing
development and the negative impact itwillcontribute. Ioppose thisprojectforthe
followingreasons:
The flooding,it'sreallybad. 1 grew up there,and we've endured hurricanes,brush
fires,had to evacuate, but there is numerous of times that these roads are closed due
to inaccessibilityand flooding.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 49
Road safety,you know, we used to play on the roads and since they opened the road
from Lipoa, people speed down that road, so, Liloa,sorry,and it'sunsafe. Infact,a lot
of times, MPD isjust notorious forflyingdown the road. So, we keep our kids in the
house or they'resupervised, but there'smany pedestrians and bicyclistsand there's
not enough roadways safelyforthem.
It'ssuper dangerous on South Kihei Road, even though there'scrosswalks, it'shard to
see pedestrians due to the lack of lightingand many times it'sgridlockedthere due to
traffic.So, there's detours because of accidents and that becomes the main artery.
The thirdtopicisworkforce housing. Itwas suggested inthe past two meetings that
these housings would be idealfor police officers,firefighters,nurses and possibly
working adults alllivingtogether. For me, who has an employed young adultson, Ican
tellyou he would not be interestedinthe price and size,or probably qualifyforthese
types of housing. So, ifwe're not making itreasonably affordableforlocalresidents;
then who are we attracting?And how do we get localfamiliesintoactualhomes?
And then finally,it'sour kuleana to listento our kupuna, they've shared valuable
information because of theirlivingthere and so I think we need to . . . and I really
oppose thisprojecton Waipu'ilani. It'snot the place to have it.It'snot. ..
And then finally,I can support of the water rightsbeing returned to the community. I
am a kalo farmer from Keanae and our water resources are so important,itshould not
be inthe hands of big corporations. It'stime that it'sreturned to the people. So, this
billshould be put on the ballotto vote. Imahalo you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisScott Martin,to be
followed by Robert Adams.
MR. SCOTT MARTIN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61 and Resolution No. 22-119
CD1 FDD:
Eh, howzit. My name is Scott Martin. I'm a Kihei resident,also part-time Keanae
resident. I'm here to talkto you today about the bill22-61, Hale Waipu'ilani.My wife
and I grew up on that area, and you know, you guys hired people likeKimokeo,
supposed culturalexperts, but maybe I'm a culturalexpert cause I'ma kalo farmer. ..
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 50
you know what Imean? He doesn't know what he's talkingabout, he's not from here.
He said that this area does not flood, and itdoes flood,and we’ve seen itlastJanuary.
Major flood. The whole area was swamp land over there.
So, my concern ifyou buildinsteadof single-familyhomes and you builda townhouse,
apartment whatever they’regoing to callit,they'regoing to raise the grade. So, they
findthe highest grade on thatpropertyand they can go three feetabove that. Talking
to the developer, they said they’renot going to raisethe grade, but we allknow that's
false. The only way they can develop theirbuildingsis to compact that area like
somebody said so itdoesn’t sink,and you have to raisethe grade three feet.
So, where isthe water going to go when itrains hard? It’sgoing to go to allthose
homes that have been there since 1970. That's not fairto those residents. It’snot fair
to Kiheicommunity. So, rightnow I'mopposed to thisproject.
Somebody talkedabout a land swap. That'sa good idea. There's apartments inNorth
Kihei allover the place in North Kihei. Swap 'um, put ’em up there. These 28 houses,
workforce housing, as a firefighterIdon'tmake enough money to qualifyforthis.When
we ask, how do you qualifyforthe median income, they said,a mother, a fatherand a
elderlychildneeds to work to qualifyfora median income setup by the County.
So, hello,three people working,two parkingspaces. They said,oh, we want the people
to walk to work. How many of you walk to the County building,that liveinWailuku? I
bet you don’t. Ibet you liveclose to Wailuku and you stilldrive.The same thingforus
in Kihei,we drive. Our priestat church drives from church to McDonald's and he’stwo
blocks away. People in Kiheidon'twalk, they drive. So, I'mopposed to that.
The other billI'dliketo talkto you about is bill22-119. As a kalo farmer, we know
what's itlikenot to have water. How many years? At least25 years a lotof our streams
had no water due to the A&B taking allof the water. The originallease was to take
overflow,not everything. And they didn’ttake the overflow,they took everything. So,
how can we leta corporation take over our water rightsagain. The water rightsis
kuleana forthe people, not forcorporations. Yeah, theirpeople. Yeah, they need to
grow food forthe people. Yeah, they need water, we're 100 percent onboard withthat,
but to give them a 30-year lease gives them a footinthe door to take allthe water and
wipe us out as kalo farmers again. So, I'm opposed to them doing thatand Iam for
thisbillthatpeople should have the rightforthe water.
I thank you foryour time today. God bless you folksand hopefullyyou guys get out
before midnight. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 51
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person-
CHAIRLEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Oh, yes Chair.
CHAIR LEE; No, I'mjustchecking,callingforthe nexttestifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Robert Adams, to be
followed by Netra Halperin inthe chambers.
MR. ROBERT ADAMS ftestifvinqon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Madam Chairman, my name isBob Adams. I'vetestifiedpreviouslyin support of the
ordinance for the adoption of the lightingrequirements. I'dliketo speak up today,
there'sbeen some memos sent to the Council about my qualificationson some of the
comments that Imade previously.
I'dliketo clarifythat1have a PhD from Brown UniversityinMaterialsScience. I'vehad
a company that1generated ...forLEDs and othertypes of applications.Through that
work, Iwas asked by the County forthe Big Islandto work with them to develop a
technology that would be friendlyto both the city budget, environment, and the
observatory. So, on that basis, I did some work with that. I’vealso been asked by
some people from the Smithsonian Instituteto look at a study of nighttimeinsectswith
the technologiesthatwork around the LEDs I'vedeveloped.
I'veworked with people inAlabama, looking at turtles.When the hatchlingseasons
come along,the babies come out of the water. They were gettingon the highway run
over because of the attractionto the lights.We did a demo there to show what the
resultswere ifthey changed to thistype of solutionthatIoffer.I'vedone similarthings
in Florida,where we're looking at the impact of the lightingand the . . . distribution
again on turtlesand other marine life.
So, I'mnot a biologistbut Ihave a lotofexperience working withthe people and it'son
that basis that I'vemade the comments to support thisordinance. I,Ihope I'vebeen
helpfulto itand again, Iremain insupport of the ordinance. Iappreciateyour time and
the opportunityto interactwith you. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions?
Member King and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
Thank you for being here, Mr. Adams again and foryour expertise.Iwanted to ask
you about the listthat was attached onto Granicus today of the Floridalighting
standards. There's some, Idon't know, dozens of companies, and Ithinkhundreds of
lightsthatwere listed.Were those allcompliant with the proposed two percentblue
lightstandard?
MR. ADAMS: Yes, allof those lightsare qualified. I'm very familiarwith that listand the
people who generated it,so allof them meet that,that'strueacross the GolfCoast
and--
CHAIR LEE: Twenty seconds.
COUNCILMEMBER LEE: Okay. And are those, are many of those availablelightsbright
enough to show colors?
MR. ADAMS: The way those lightsare set-up though, they are not going to show colors.
That'sjustpartof the distributionand the way the . ..works and how the human eye
works.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Adams foryour testimony.
Ijusthad a question,when you were clarifyingthe memo, was thatyour clarificationof
the Hawaii Five-0 email?
MR. ADAMS: Ibelieve so. Itwas sent to me lastnight,a memo sent to the Councilfrom one
of the County attorneys.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, so thatwas your clarification,your three-minutetestimony.
Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 53
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis Netra Halperin in the
chambers, to be followed by Martin Cooper.
(testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61 and ResolutionMS. NETRA HALPERIN
No. 22-119 CD1 FDD;
Aloha, my name isNetra Halperin. I'm 100 percent insupport in22-119 to establisha
regionalwater board. Maui's water belongs to the ‘ainaand to the people of Maui, not
a for-profitforeign corporation whose fiduciaryduty is to itsshareholders, not the
people of Maui. Leasing our water rightsto Mahi Pono and a Canadian corporationis
going back intime tofeudalism,to a plantationeconomy and socialstructure.We need
to move forward to equity and empowerment of the people of Maui.
And, and also,we'llhave additionalfunding to startimproving our water infrastructure
as been pointingitout withthe three millionextradollarsthatthiswillbringthe County.
And equalizingthe distributionof water, the essence of life.
While stream flows have been restored, there are bad actors who are stillusing more
than theirallotments and need to be prosecuted. An East Maui water commission can
do that. Especiallywith food insecuritybecoming a nationalissue,Maui must become
agriculturallysustainable. This isnot possible without community oversightof water
distribution.
This decision is too big for the Mayor, or even the County Council to decide. This
should be decided by the people of Maui being directlyimpacted by water usage.
Again, I'm instrong support of Resolution 22-119, and urge the Members of the Maui
County Council to vote yes to puttingthison the November ballot.
And then I also want to talk about 22-61. As part of going door-to-door for my
campaign. I'vebeen inthe Waipu'ilaniarea inthe lastcouple days and when Igo to
people's doors, Iask what isyour concern and almost allofthem talkabout this.They
talkabout the floodingthat they'realready experiencing. They talkabout the traffic
jams thatare created inthe neighborhood. They also talkabout thatthey can'teven
get out of their neighborhood without going down to South Kihei Road, but that's
another separate issue.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 54
But absolutely,thisisnot the rightplace as everybody has mentioned. Ithinka great
idea ifpossible would be to do a land swap with the tech park, because that'sthe land
that isn'tbeing used and we don’t need to keep condensing with already developed
around Kihei and gettingridof our wetlands, gettingridof the gulches, because that's
where the water needs to go and otherwise it'sgoing to flood and it'sjust going to
create, continue to create havoc.
So, of course Isupport affordablehousing, and the other thing is Iwould liketo see
these projects,there be a requirement of residency,thatsomebody from the mainland
can'tjustbuy them and they have to be listedas the person's primary resident,not a
second home. And even that, because of the cost of buildingthese days, because of
allthe increase in prices of materials and labor,etc. It'sstillgoing to be hard for Maui
people to buy these properties. But we do need to create housing forour people here
on Maui. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Quick question. Thank you forbeing here, Netra. Good to see
you.
MS. HALPERIN: Nice to see you, Kelly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, on the, you mention the land swap with the high-tech park.
I'veheard thatbefore. The County doesn'town any land inthere so are you suggesting
thatmaybe we can do some kind of swap with State land? Iwasn't sure what you were
referringto?
MS. HALPERIN: That would be, that would be a good possible idea, or Idon't know ifthe
ranch is,isamenable to sellinglands that are on the side of Pi'ilaniHighway, because
itjustseems like-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, Iwas justasking if,iknow you're going fora State position,I
justwondered ifyou knew of,ifthere were any State lands there. But maybe we could
talk about that.
MS. HALPERIN: Okay, that'sa good idea. I'dbe happy to. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 55
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. HALPERIN: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Martin Cooper in the
chambers, to be followed by Kaatee Bailey.
MR. MARTIN COOPER (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-62):
Good morning, Chair,Members.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. COOPER: Ihave been here for20 years. This isan important situationforme. Ido not
support bill,or Resolution 22-62 it'sabout the affordablehousing. I'ma State of Hawaii
licensedarchitectand general contractor.Ihave livedand practiced both architecture
and buildinginHawaii for30 years.
Over these years I'veparticipatedin several subdivisions with workforce housing
components, includingone of my own projects.The projectsthat I'm worked on the
largerones were Paukukalo, NapilihauVillages,lao Parkside, Nanea, PiilaniIand II,
Waikapu Gardens I and ll,Kahoma, Waiale Elua, Kua'aina Mauka. I'm the architect
for that,builder and one of the owners.
For my projectwe had a total,we have a totalof fiveunits leftwith 16 houses, 16
cottages. The cottages, or excuse me, one of the houses and six ofthe cottages were
sold to familiesas actualCounty of Maui affordableunits.
We were finallyable to complete the roadwork in 2019 and at that time our locked in
verticalconstructionwas $172.50 a square foot,which isprettylow and that'sprobably
because we didn'thave any general contracting fees in there on purpose and no
architecturalfees, those are straightcosts. But now three years laterwith COVID,
crazy price increases, inflation,but thankfullynone of our subs increased theirlabor
fees. But since, not since 2019 our cost are now at $236.76 a square foot. That's
straightcosts. That’s a 37 percent interest,increase.
So 1 can legitimatelytellyou that local builders reallystruggleto provide affordable
housing on Maui. Under the current guidelinesand the exponentiallyincreasingcosts,
it'sunderstandable that we as a community do not have the affordablehousing thatwe
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 56
need. Just lastweek, Hawaiian Cement notifiedus that theircosts to us are going up
65 to 86 percent coming earlynext year,and lastyear we experienced over 50 percent
increase inlumber alone,and that'sthrough Honsador here on Maui.
All buildersare faced with uncertainty. Rising materialcosts,labor prices,Federal,
State, and County regulationscontinue to increase. The most contractorsthey are
startingto lean towards only agreeing to cost plus contracts.These type of contracts
don'thelp affordable-housingunits.Itjust,you know, that'sa profit-driventhing.
So, thisproposed billmaking affordablehousing would make affordablehousing even
harder to provide. The number of these unitsbeing available,even to my children
would further be reduced.
CHAIR LEE; Could you please conclude your testimony?
MR. COOPER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks.
MR. COOPER: Yeah, I'vebeen before you long time ago. Affordable housing buildersare
also facing the riskof.I'm sorry. Not only am I an architectbut I'm a father. I have
three blood children,four stepchildren;fiveof my childrenliveinthe islands.Three of
them here on Maui. One lives with me, another one with her in-laws, and the other one
Isupport. So Ican honestlysay and stand infrontofyou and say thatIrecognize both
sides of this issue.
Please leave the affordable sales price,the affordable housing sales price in their
current form. It'salready presents a very difficultstruggleforbuildersand especially
those of us thatactuallywant to provide affordableunitshere on Maui.
The three recommendations Iwould have for you isto provide basic utilitiesneeded
for affordableprojectsin our road; reduce the enormous amount of red tape thatwe
deal with inthe County; and then provide subsidiesto localfamilies.
Thank you, and more than happy to answer any questions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Mahalo for your testimony. Are you
aware thatwe have passed billsto help subsidizethe buildersforthat? Now, we use
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 57
our bonds to subsidize it,so are you aware that we willcome meet you guys where
you're at for developing, so we can buy down the houses? Right now affordable
housing priceguidelines,they say $700,000 is affordable.I don't think folks could
consider thataffordable.So, the pointiswe would-
MR. COOPER: It'snot affordable.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Right. So, with using the bond money would help you guys
subsidize? You mentioned subsidies. So are you aware thatwe have passed billsthat
help subsidize using bond money?
MR. COOPER: I'm not as aware as you are obviously,but Ihave, it'scome across my desk.
The situationisthatwe feelthatwe're not being worked with.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, Iunderstand that.Unfortunately,I'mout of time,but
maybe we can speak offline.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. COOPER: ileftmy email inthe thing.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Great. Mahalo. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We have another question from Member, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, sir. So, my
question isyou mentioned thatyou, the latterpart of your testimony that there were
three options.
MR. COOPER: Three suggestions, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Three suggestions. So when you said to subsidize,were you
asking forsubsidiesforthe homeowner or subsidy forthe developer?
MR. COOPER: For the homeowners.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Okay. Igot that.Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 58
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ihad a question.
CHAIR LEE: You had a question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez has a question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha. Mahalo foryour testimony. Quick question
are you able to send your testimony to us via email?
MR. COOPER: Idid yesterday.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Perfect. I'lllook for it.Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. COOPER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Kaatee
Bailey inthe chambers, to be followed by UHani Purdy.
MS. KAATEE BAILEY (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Good morning, Council. Thank you forthe opportunityto share my voice to you, and
to the people. Iam a pastor,and Iam a concerned citizen,and a constituent. Iwant
to thank the County Members who voted in favor of Resolution 22-119. As a
constituent,1 am watching closely the vote of each Councilmember. I want our
Councilmembers to hear the voice of the people. And Iwant to remind you as many
others who have today thatyour duty isto serve people. My prayer today isthatyou
willbecome united and that you willvote unanimously a yes on this important
resolution.
Water isa vitalresource to the people and to the land. Water rightslead to power. By
puttingthe water rightsintothe hand of a foreigncorporationisgivingaway the greatest
power of the people and the land. This isputtingthe people of Maui at a very high risk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 59
Entrustingour water rightsto foreignerscan drasticallyaffectthe futuregenerations
and the qualityof lifeof the land and the people.
The Hawaii State Constitutionclearlystatesthe water isa publictrust.What isa public
trust? The definitionisinsimple terms a publictrustisa "benefitforthe citizensowned
by the State." The water rightsbelong to the public. Iam asking Councilmembers to
please put the needs of the people first,and to protectthe water rightsby voting yes
on Resolution 22-119.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members?
Ifnot,Mr. Clerk. Thank you.
MS. BAILEY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk,how many more testifiersdo we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, currentlyrightnow we have approximately 55 testifiers
signed up. Chair,the next person signed up to testifyis U'ilaniPurdy, to be followed
Jim Hayes.
CHAIR LEE: And then we‘11 take a lunch break.
MS. U'ILANI PURDY (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FD1T
Aloha, Council. I'm U'ilaniPurdy. Iam a kanaka maoii,born inthe islands and raised
here on Maui. Ilovemyaina. Ilove my lahui. Iliveon hui‘ohana lands in Honua'uia.
Ihave generations of kupuna and ‘ohana before me from thisland.
I want to thank you for this opportunity to share and thank you all County
Councilmembers for listeningto we the people, and serving our communites. And I
want to thank those on Council who are in favor of Resolution 22-119 and today Istand
here forme, my family,my generations to come, and allwho livehere inour beautiful
Maui Nei, and all, i stand here also for those local farmers, local ranches, local
businesses, and those raisingtheirfamilieshere.
1know thatmajorityof the Councilmembers are infavor of protectingour water rights.
So, Ihope and pray today willbringa uniteddecision. We allknow thatwater isa vital
source of life. It is our kuleana to steward itwell. I am a voice in favor of Resolution
22-119 to protectthe water rightsof my people. Iam not in favor,and not willingto
give away my heritage and controlto foreign corporations. Mahalo nui a ke akua pu.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? No, questions. Okay, let'stake the finalone
before our break.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lasttestifierbefore the lunch break isJim Hayes.
MR. JIM HAYES [testifyinaon BillNo. 21 CD1 EDI (2022)1:
Thank you. Council. My name is Jim Hayes, l‘m a principalplanner with Planning
Solutionsin Honolulu. I‘mtestifyingon Bill21.
I have years of experience assessing impacts to threatened endangered seabirds in
Hawaii and I led a team that recently completed a Draft Environmental Assessment of
the proposed Maui County StreetlightConversion Project. The Draft Environmental
Assessment willappear inthe July 23 editionof The Environmental Notice.
The conversion projectinvolvesthe replacement of the approximately4,900 County-
owned streetlightfixtures.That would involvethe removal ofthe existinghigh pressure
sodium lightsand the installationof fully-shielded,energy-saving lightemittingdiode,
or LED streetlights.The LEDs would have a corralatedcolortemperature or CCT of
2700K, and itcould be wirelessly controlled,and they comply with the existing
administrativerules. The projectincludes the implementation of adaptive lightingto
avoid and minimize impacts to wildlife;those measures would includedimming when
and where appropriate.
In the Draft Enviromental Assessment we consider an alternative that would utilize a
lower blue lightcontent streetlight,such as the one thatwould be requiredunder Bill21.
That alternative was eliminated, and Bill21 should be reconsidered for the following
reasons:
A lower blue lightcontent alternativewould not provide bettershieldingof the lightand
that isthe most criticalelement when avoiding and minimizing impacts to streetlights.
The potentialwildlifeimpact associated with an alternativethat used low blue light
fixturescountywide would likelybe similarto the impacts associatedwiththe proposed
conversion project.And there are two main reasons forthis.First,there'sno evidence
that seabird lightattractionwould be meaningfully reduced using a low blue light
content fixture. Itis important to note that the U.S. Fish and WildlifeService and
Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources do not mention using a low blue
lightproduct to avoid or minimize impacts to Hawaii's seabirds. Second, the proposed
conversion projectincludes adaptive lightingmeasures, such as the use of low blue
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 61
lightcontent fixturesincertainshorelinelocations.This isimportant because itissea
turtles,not seabirds that are adversely affected by blue light.
Additionalreasons fordiscardingthe blue lightcontent alternativeincludethatthe 2016
demonstration projecton Maui Lani Parkway showed us that residentsand agency
representativespreferstreetlightsthathave more than 15 percent blue light.The public
and safetyagencies would finda low blue lightalternativeunappealing and potentially.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hayes. Mr. Hayes, could you conclude your testimony,please.
MR. HAYES: Ijusthave one more thing.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, great.
MR. HAYES: The publicand safetyagencies would findlow blue lightalternativeunappealing
and potentiallydetrimentalto theirsafety,as EricMiyasato demonstrated.
Further considering safety, the County of Maui Police Department told us as we
prepared the draftEA, that the LED lightingis recommended in a policytitled"Crime
Prevention Through Environmental Design." The LEDs are recommended in that
policybecause they allow color and objects to be more visibleand appear sharper.
However, those benefits are only realizedwhen the LED utilizedproduces a broad
spectrum of light.A low blue lightLED would not produce a low,would not produce a
broad spectrum of lightand, therefore,be inconsistentwith the desires of the Maui
PoliceDepartment and inconsistentwiththe Crime PreventionThrough Environmental
Design policies.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I actuallywould liketo know if,ifhe has or
could submit histestimony inwriting?
MR. HAYES: I can, and as 1 mentioned the Draft Environmental Assessment of the project
willbe availableto the publicand we can make itavailableto you as well now.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Thank you.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 62
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here, Mr. Hayes. Ijust
wondered ifyou actuallyread the billand realizedthat there are exemptions forpolice
and firelighting?
MR. HAYES: I do understand that. However, the police desire broad spectrum lighting
throughoutthe County and specificallywithstreetlightsas thatisoftentheirpatrolarea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, because we had both of them on and they were both
satisfiedwith the exemptions inthe bill.That's all.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair and thank you, Mr. Hayes foryour testimony.
Just was clarifying,did you say thatyou could make the EA availableto us ahead of
the public?
MR. HAYES: The environmental assessment has been submitted to the Environmental
Review Program already. So itisconsidered ready, and can be shared now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And you said,you were going to do that?
MR. HAYES: Uh, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, please do. Thank you.
MR. HAYES: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Hayes. Members
it'sabout 12:03, 12:04 now. How much time would you like?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I apologize. This might be out of order but I’m
thinking,there'sa, Igot a message from a testifier,Gina Chamberlain, she's getting
ready to get on a plane and won't be able to testifyifwe go on lunch. Would she be
allowed to do one before we go forlunch?
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I don't want to-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 63
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we'lltake her. We'lltake her. Is she on, on the call? Is she on the
phone? Where isshe?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: That will be for Gina Chamberlain.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk,can you callup Gina Chamberlain.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Gina Chamberlain, I'm not sure how you're connected to the
meeting, but itisyour time to testify.
Last call,Gina Chamberlain.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. That'sfine.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we don'thave any response from Gina Chamberlain.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, it'snow 12:05. Do you want to make it1:30 or 1:05?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 1:30.
CHAIR LEE: 1:30? Okay. Meeting willbe inrecess until1:30.
{THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:05 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:33 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of July 15, 2022, please reconvene. Mr. Clerk, let's
resume testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisRebecca Alexander,
to be followed by Tamara McKay.
MS. REBECCA ALEXANDER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 64
MS. ALEXANDER: Hi Alice,hiTamara, hi Kelly,hi Mike, Tasha, Gabe. Aloha. My name is,
firstof all,thank you very much for listening,and thank you to allforyour attentionin
saving Waipu'ilani. My name is Bees Kaniapua Alexander and I'mtestifyingtoday in
regards to the buildingprojectat 16 East Waipu'ilanihere in Kihei. I'velivedon the
islandof Maui for47 years, a graduate of Lahainaluna High School. I'man owner and
a residentof 15 East Waipu'ilani,directlyacross the projectfor18 years.
Let me justtellyou a littlestoryabout the history,reallyshortwithinmy three minutes.
When Grandma BettyAnn ...who Iknew personallyas my neighbor,who has passed
on, was the originalowner of 16 East Waipu'ilani. Betty only wanted to keep this
property for her futuregenerations. A few homes to be builtfor her ohana so they
would have a home foralways. But thatdream, likemany, from our kupunas isa hard
thing to accomplish.
Istronglyagree to affordablehousing, but not 28 unitswith 59 parkingstallsinmy front
yard. What can we, or what can Ido to help you finda more logicalplace where there's
more much needed housing? Over 200 signatures were collected,residents of
Waipu'ilani,who do not want this project in our neighborhood. These residents all
understand our neighborhood is not where thisprojectbelongs. It'snot the correct
location.
Affordable housing isdefinitelyneeded for our futuregenerations. Ido not objectto
that. But I firmlyask you please relocatethis project. There's hundreds of other
locationsavailable.Across the upper highways. This isa floodzone. Already traffic
isa dailychallenge forus everyday here. It'sobnoxious. You already know how busy
Kihei is. And with our intersection,South Kihei and Waipu'ilani,isso very busy we
have many frequent accidents.
Please Waipu'ilanimatters to us. Do you wish thisacross your own home? Please
stop thisprojectat 16 East. The floodingisterriblehere. You obviouslyexperienced
the last,the lastmishap that destroyed Kihei. Please help us relocate. Stop this
project.Mahalo nui loa. Mahalo ke akua. Aloha. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, Ijusthad my hand up waving back to Ms. Alexander.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 65
MS. ALEXANDER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Are you relatedto Rick Alexander?
MS. ALEXANDER: I'm not sure, ma'am.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
MS. ALEXANDER: But I know allof you, I know allof you from the rodeo ifyou guys
remember me? Istood next to each of you as you guys were voting forthe parades.
Ihave been the commentator there formany years already forthe rodeo as well.
CHAIR LEE: No wonder you look familiar.
MS. ALEXANDER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much.
MS. ALEXANDER: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, we do have a specialrequest. We have someone whose
callingin from the mainland. His name is Rick Alexander. I'veasked since it's4:30
over there,ifhe could move up inthe line? He's likenumber 62.
Any objectionsto lettinghim testifynow?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: No objections,then so ordered. Mr. Clerk,I'm callingMr. Rick Alexander up for
testimony. Rick,would you liketo start.
MR. RICK ALEXANDER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Chair, firstof allIwant to thank my wife for speaking up. She's there,I'm here. First
of all,Iwant to thank God forthismeeting here. And when itstartedin remembrance
of Colette,which to me iswhat we need more of people likethat.And Iwish you folks,
I know most of you personally,and 1know deep down inyour heartthatyou love the
‘aina,firstof all. So likewas mentioned, she was a fighter.I'm a fighter.Idon'tgive
up, infact,ifIget knocked down, Istand up, Itryagain. That’sthe way Iwas brought
up, that'sold-school. Today, they weeny-weeny, they move out.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 66
I'vebeen inpoliticsfora long time,not directlyinvolved,but Iknow what isa good and
the bad, and my whole idea has been always we allneed affordablehousing. We don't
need pilgrimhaole housing. Okay? There's a differencebetween a pilgrimhaole, a
haoie, and a local. A local is likea local haole, okay, born and raised. Now, my book
10-years you liveon thatislandyou become a localhaole, popolo, potagee, whateva.
But priorto that,you do not deserve any affordablehousing, period. Okay? Because
you takingaway from the ‘ohana and the futuregenerations to come.
That's why a lotof people stay in Vegas. I meet people almost every week. "Oh,
bruddah, what you doing up here?" "Oh, Ihad to move, too expensive." Isaid,"Wow,
what about you?" Isay, "Well,I'm fortunate,!moved up here forthe VA healthcare.
But Igo home, you know, as often as possible,because Imiss my family. You know,
I go littlewhile,come back, but 1 don't stop fightingfor my family." Okay? And I'm
blessed, okay?
Not likeother,some other people, but likeBee said,when Igot thathouse. Grandma
Betty was a very inspirationalperson. That lady through her whole time walked out
that frontdoor early in the morning with her cane sometimes and water the yard, do
the stuff,always so friendly.And what? Now, you going get a bunch of pilgrims.And
Betsill,look at ailthe missed, missed projectsthathe done. Right there,Meadowlands,
they backfilledthat. So, likeearlierpartthey said about the--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Rick you have one minute to finish.What happened? You're frozen.
Rick, why don't you turn offyour video. Yeah, yeah, turn offyour video. Try talking
now. Try talking.
MR. ALEXANDER: ... Okay. So anyway, the whole idea isthatfrom way, way back with
the water rights,okay? You folksknow thatyou folksgot electedby the people of Maui.
Okay, just likeifwe look at our major democratic corruptsystem rightnow thatwe're
going through,who's gettingaffected? The people. Look California,look at allthese
other places, right? That should tellyou thatthe government, thatwe put the people
in government.
So now fortake care the water, the water isa rights-of-the-people,not of the pilgrims,
or the corporations. We need thatwater forcome down. The firstthingisinfrastructure.
Okay, how you going buildsomething, likenow you guys get 700 something homes
thatthey likebuildinWailuku or Waiehu. So, SterlingKim was going buildyears and
years ago, but allthe committees allgave him hard time. So what? He had to lose
'em,.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 67
But now you get one pilgrimthattook over and everybody isoh, yeah, especiallythe
Mayor, oh, yes, we need that. But I remember the words from the Mayor Michael
Victorino,he said, we need the water, the water. Okay, my point completely is ten
years,ten years before you qualifyand notthe developer take the names in.You make
one committee with the County thattake the names and get them qualified,that'sthe
bottom line.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions forMr. Alexander?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Rick.
MR. ALEXANDER: Hello.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwanted to check and kind of,ifyou could clarifywhat item
you are speaking on and what your positionis?
MR. ALEXANDER: Well, my item was that I'm,I'm,you know already that I don't likethe
project across my house. But the point I was tryingto make is that for any future
development to even take place on Maui, you need to number 1, infrastructure,
because likeI said, the one in Waiehu, okay, you going build over there, where the
people going? They go down through Happy Valley. Happy Valley,already the road
clutteredbecause you get Wailuku, what you callCountry Estates?
CHAIR LEE: Okay Rick,we going offthe subject.
MR. ALEXANDER: No, no, no, we on the subject. Because-
CHAIR LEE: You were, you were talkingabout Waipu'iiani;right?
MR. ALEXANDER: Yeah, yeah. Well, that'swhat Kellyasked me, okay? We talkingabout
infrastructure,but I'm talking about you gotta look at the whole scenario. Okay?
Therefore,you guys need meetings. The whole scenario. You cannot have thiscorrupt
developers . ..and ruiningeverything. Pau, okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. Any more questions.Members?
ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 68
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisTamara McKay in
the chambers, to be followed by Aqua Carter.
MS. TAMARA MCKAY (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FD1T
Aloha everyone. Thank you, Councilmembers. And firstof all,I want to give my
condolences forMrs. Machado forher passing. Iknow she was a dear friendto many.
With that,Iam speaking on behalf of 22-119. Voting, Iam representingconcerned
citizens,as wellas speaking as a citizenwho's been on the water meter listfor16 years
and toldwe have 14 more years to go before we get our water meter.
The water rights-
CHAIR LEE: What isyour name, again? Excuse me, what isyour name?
MS. MCKAY: Tamara, and it'sspelled McKay. The water rightsneed to be inthe power of
itscitizensand not inthe hands of an entitythathas been controlledand influencedby
Canada and holders in California. We should, we should not put ourselves atthe mercy
of big corp, when we have many capable farmers who can flourishwith the proper
support from the County and the community. The Council is asked to honor their
positions,as a voice of the people, and as servants of the people.
With the rights,with the rightsto the people, thiswould help with the water meter
issues. The optics of approval to developers for water meters to buildhotelsand
condos isthat the people are not the priority,ifwater meters are approved forthe
citizensbefore the developers, itwould assistin keeping familiesinHawaii,as wellas
puttinga dent in housing shortages.
The financiallosses to Mahi Pono ifthisdeal doesn't go through shouldn'tbe a concern
to us and the citizens in Maui County. There are also water alternativesthat 1think
should be considered such as desalination, catchment and drilling.I know that there
was conversation thatthere isa potentialdrillingsitegoing on that'sfor$10 million.I
would ask the Councilmembers to reconsider the budget forthe Hawaii community, the
Hawaii center of $43 million that I saw that was on the budget because that would
enable financingforadditionalmore drillingspots to be considered.
I'msure there'senvironmental questions about that,butwhat isour environment facing
when we continue to allow conglomerates to come inhere and buildand condos going
up likecrazy in the Kihei area. 1thinkwe need to put the aina and the people first
before we starthanding out water meters leftand right.1thinkthatwe need to make
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 69
decisionsto buildup the people first,as Isaid,beforewe make concessionsforforeign
investorsand developers.
So, Irespectfullyask atthisthistime those who are not insupportofthisbillto please
say why you do not support thisinitiative?Thank you. Timing withthe bell.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot.thank you very much.
MS. MCKAY: Can Irequest an answer from those who are not infavor of the billto please
explain why?
CHAIR LEE: No, we're not going to have discussions now. It'stestimonytime.
MS. MCKAY: Okay. So, how can we findthe testimony so it'sclearto the citizens?So, we
betterunderstand the reason why not,there'sno support forthisbill?
CHAIR LEE: Well,we willbe discussing itlater,eithertonightor on Monday. Okay? Thank
you.
MS. MCKAY: Will this be videoed?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. MCKAY: Okay, thank you. They said yes. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisAqua Carterinthe
chambers, to be followed by ScottAdam.
CHAIR LEE: And how many more testifiersdo we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, about 55.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Aqua Carter inthe chambers, lastcall.
Then the next person signed up totestifyisScottAdam inthe chambers, tobe followed
by Genesis Ransom.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 70
MR. SCOTT ADAM [testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FD1 and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1
(2022)1:
Hello, Council. FirstI'dliketo touch on Bill21, and I have serious concerns about the
cost that itwould actuallybring back to not only independent and private small
businesses and the taxpayers, but also the attentionthat itwould take away from the
current crumbling infrastructureto retrofitand move forward with a new lighting
regulations.And Idon'tunderstand how we can actuallythinkabout going forward with
new lightingregulations,and moving forward with retrofittingbuildingswhen we have
a major economic downturn. We have incrediblesupply lineissues, and yet we're
moving forward with a lightingbill.So, Iwould liketo just,justsay thatI'mopposed to
that. Alright,Ithink Ihad too much coffee at lunch.
In addition,I also wanted to talk about the buildingin floodplain. Commonsense
decisions, 1mean, how can we continue to keep buildinginplaces thatcontinuallyflood
time after time and time. That's no-brainer and makes, like,you know, when we're
actuallythinking about taking care of the aina and taking care of the community.
Buildingnon-sustainable homes makes no sense.
In addition,Iwould liketo speak on the water bill.We allknow thatyou guys were put
into place to serve the people, the water belongs to the people. And we have big
corporationsthatcontinue to buyout land,buyout water allover the world as they think
they can buy the rightsto water. The rightsto the water need to belong to the people
and we need to vote yes on thisbillso we can get itto the people to make sense. For
the people to make the decision,because you serve the people. The people have the
power, and we can'tcontinue to make decisions forvitalliferesources through back
room deals,and County Council decisionsthataren'tactuallyexposed to the people.
There's lack,a major lack of transparency that goes on where the people can'teven
reallyhave time to look at the bills.And we're burying thingsso deeply thatwe need
to figureout how to make thisa lotmore transparent maybe through town halls,maybe
through actualcommunity interactionsthatwe can make a largerpartofour community
aware of these decisions that are being made of theirvitalresources. And we need to
trulybring back the power of thisCouncil to serving the people of Maui County. So,
thank you. That's all1have to say.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions?
Yes, Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 71
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just a quick one. Excuse me. Thank you very much for
testifying.Idid not get your name.
MR. ADAM: My name isScott Adam.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
Aloha, Mr. Adam. Mahalo foryour testimony. Iagree with your testimony about more
transparency. Ido a monthly townhallmeeting, butthat'snot my question.My question
is,are you aware allof our meetings are broadcasted liveon Facebook, on Akaku
Channel 54 on TV, and on mauicounty.us for everyone to be able to see and it's
archived up there foreverybody to see.
MR. ADAM: Yeah, Iabsolutelyam. Yeah, forsure Iam aware ofthat.Itjustseems thatthe
overallcommunity outreach,and 1would lovetosee throughthatdata and theanalytics
how much community interactionisactuallygoing on withthose,those posts? And
how much pre-contactwiththe community isactuallyhappening? That would be great.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Adam. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Ifnot,thank you very much. Thank you.
MR. ADAM: Thank you, guys.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisGenesis Ransom
inthe chambers, to be followed by Wade Hondo.
MS. GENESIS RANSOM (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
My name isGenesis Ransom and Iam insupport of Resolution22-119, because I'm
an advocate forfood security.The people of Maui should not be atthe mercy ofthe
ships deliveringour food. Maui has a 12-month growing season and therewas a time
when we were not dependent on any food imports. Today I'veseen storeshelves
depleted of basic items. As I watch the farmers in the Netherlands stand-up to
draconian rulesthatprevent them from producing food, Ican'thelpbutthinkabout how
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 72
giving up controlof our water to a foreigncorporationis a directthreatto our food
security.
Mahi Pono has no obligationto the people. They have shareholders to thinkabout.
Myself and many people Iknow have decided to grow our own food at home. We plan
on thisbeing our only source of food ifnecessary. Anyone who ispaying attentionto
inflation,and who isbuying up allthe farmland on the mainland knows thatthisishow
we need to prepare. Water islife.
I had no concern for what localI second what Nate said earlierin testimony,
government was doing before itaffectedmy life.I’m now paying attentionand very
active. I'veeducated friendsand familyon importanttopicsand the consensus isthat
public servants are not followingthrough on the willof the people. The good news is
that thishas encouraged record numbers of firsttime voter registration.Iencourage
every servant of Maui County Council to vote yes on Resolution 22-119 and get iton
the ballotin November because itisthe willof the people and we are paying attention
to your actions. That includesyour in-personattendance and your inabilityto smile at
the people. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any questions,Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Quick question. Imissed
your lastname.
MS. RANSOM: Ransom.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ransom. Mahalo for your testimony,
Ms. Ransom. I'm reallyhappy to hear thatyou're ... Ijustwanted to check ifyou are
aware of the other ballotquestions thatwillbe on the ballotthisGeneral Election?
MS. RANSOM: Yes.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, okay great. And as Member King
asked earlier,hopefully,you folkswillbe watching those and hoping to educate others
so thatthey can vote on those and not leave those blank.
MS. RANSOM: Absolutely.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Awesome. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 73
MS. RANSOM: Mahalo.
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisWade Hondo, to be
followed by Dennis O'Shea.
MR. WADE HONDO [testifyingon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Hello,County Council. In regards to Bill21. the MIL isconcerned with the following
issues that will affect our student athletes as well as the many students,parents and
supportersfrom the 13 differentschools thatmake up the Maui InterscholasticLeague.
General concerns include the following:
1. Funding. With the risingcost of equipment, supplies,and shippingwillthere be
enough funding and willthe athleticvenues be given a lowerpriority?The exemption
period may not be enough time and the nightgame opportunitiesthatwe have been
affordedby the State and County venues forour studentathleteswillbe taken away.
2. Time. Because of the constant use of the facilities by both schools and the
community, the concern isthe lengthof time needed to make the necessary changes
willshut fieldsdown duringthe high school seasons.
3. Maintenance. We are concerned that there will be availabilityissues and a long
waiting list,hence delays.
4. Projectsalready being planned and funded, Baldwin High School isinthe design
phase to get a new locker room and weight room, and we recentlygot funding fora
design phase fora girl'slockerroom. Iam personallyconcerned thata projecttocreate
lightingcompliance on our campus willnow put these criticalprojectswe have waited
years for on hold, and again, our student athletesand allthose students thatare
requiredto take PE inthe school willcontinue to lose out.
As the MIL baseball coordinator,many schools relyon County facilitiesto supporttheir
programs. Maehara Baseball Stadium isconsidered one oftheflagshipgrassstadiums
inthe State and it'swhere we have practicesand MIL games. Inaddition,the HHSAA
State tournament isheld here every three years, which bringsinteams from Oahu and
the Big Islandand istelevisedon OC16.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 74
Ifwe are unable to have nightgames due todelays and or retrofitting,baseballspecific
concerns are the following:
1. Officials.Having games at nightallows these officialstofinishworking theirprimary
job and then make itto the fieldintime to help.
2. Safety. We're concerned that changes made to the lightsand healthrestrictions
willaffectthe abilityforplayersto trackdown a baseball. Heat illnessisalso a concern
ifday games are the only option.
3. Access to the community. Night games allow parents and supportersto attendafter
work and allow playersto play afterschool isdone.
4. Scheduling. No night games mean startinggames much earlier,which means
pullingkidsout of school and puttinga strainon theiracademic success.
5. Opportunities.The State tournament requiresnightgames. Besides our kids not
being used to that,we would lose the State tournament. Losing the State tournament
creates added team travelexpenses and prevents family,friends,and community an
opportunityto watch our student athletesin person compete against the best in the
State.
We see the value of the billin terms of the environment. Our concern is whether or not
there is a solidplan in place to help ensure that our student athletes,student body,
familiesand community supporters do not lose out on any more high school sports
opportunities.Our student athletesand stakeholders have gone through so much with
the shutdown of the seasons and the continued restrictions on sports. We are
concerned thatunintended compliance issues may become an additionalburden and
affect our children and our communities' social, emotional recovery in very negative
ways at a criticaltime where they are juststartingto see thingsget better.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hondo. Members, do you have any questions?
No questions. Thank you very much. Next testifier,please.
MR. HONDO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisDennis O'Shea in
the chambers, to be followed,followed by Jr.Tupai.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 75
MR. DENNIS O'SHEA ftestifyinaon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022) and Resolution No. 22-119
CD1 FD11:
Hello and good afternoon. I'm Dennis O'Shea, I'm a residentof Kihei here on Maui.
I'm here to testifyon two issues. Bill21, and I'llstartoffwith 22-119. We've heard
many, many testimoniesso far. Ifyou were to stop the testimoniestoday,Idon'tknow
why you couldn'tcontinue votingon thisand justpush itthrough. Ihaven'theard one
out of ailthe days I'vebeen here thatisagainstitfrom the public.
So, moving forward, I'm not going to get intothe whole particularsof the billor the
resolution,excuse me. We allknow what it'sabout. What Iwant to talkabout isthe
company thatwants the rightsinparticular,Mahi Pono. To grow and cultivateproperly,
which is,ifitwasn't so gross itwould be kind of laughable. But they’realso known in
Californiaas Pomona, which isthe goddess offruitfulabundance inRoman mythology,
which isanother crazy thingthey callthemselves.
The three of those companies, PSP Investments are actuallyowned by a very large
Canadian Pension Investment firm known as Trinitus Partners that poses as an
agriculturalcompany and isbuying up millionsofacres of landacrosscountriestogain
water rightsand develop the land forprofit.Their end goal isnotfarming.We can look
at theirpast history.
What they've done in Californiais trulyhorrifying.They have brought up tens of
thousands of acres inthe Stanislaus County centralfarming area. Iknow thisfora fact
because I have tons of family there. They purposely destroyed many surrounding
farms thatwere inexistence forgenerations. How did they do this?They drilledwells
so deep, thatthey were able tostealgroundwater and dry up wellsfrom thesurrounding
farms and homes, inthe attempt to force sales of lands from these farmers. They’re
currentlydoing thisinAustralia,the UK, Asia,and Brazil.
Here on Maui, they'resupposedly growing citrus,avocadoes, potatoes,and coffeefor
the people forsustainablefood. Nottrue. Truthfully,Ibelievethe citrusand avocadoes
will not be successful here because of the area that they planted them in,you can see
them on the right-handside as you driveto Pukalani. Those treesare going to be
destroyed as they grow by these trade winds, or the trade winds. They are not
protectedby hedgerows. Any othersuccessfulcitrusand avocado farms,likethe ones
Igrew up around inSanta Clara Valley in California,inan area calledPsomas. We
have large eucalyptus tree hedgerows on both sides of the orchards because we do
have westerly ocean winds and east trade winds. So, that'show our farms are
successful. It'snot going to happen up there on the side of Haleakala.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 76
My biggest concern though isthe main chemical thatthey use here which isparaquat.
Paraquat is an extremely toxicchemical that has actuallybeen labeled by Hazmat
material specialistas a restricteduse herbicide and is outlawed in many countries. It
isespeciallytoxicto humans, surrounding organisms, the soil,and the water. The list
of human side-effectsare too long formy three minutes. Paraquat issignificantlymore
poisonous than glyphosates, betterknown as Roundup.
Paraquat isextremely bad forbees. So thiskind of explains why Isee so many dead
bees the lastfew years on the south shore of Maui and inmy backyard. And bees are
extremely overwhelmingly important to our existence. I cannot believe there are
Members in the chamber in our localgovernment that claim to be forthe people and
theirenvironment, but have allowed the company such as Trinitusto come here, dig
roots,begin poisoning our soil,water and organisms-
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me, can you please conclude your testimony?
MR. O'SHEA: Yes. ma'am. I'mgettingthere rightnow. I'vewaited allday. I'mgoing to get
down.
Our Mayor marched these people around as some great savior to Maui to give us
sustainablefarming. This isnot true. This company isa wolf insheep's clothingand
they have no business owning our water rights.Allthisbeing said,there should be no
conversation moving forward that the water rightsof the people of Maui be given any
privatecorporationor business. We need the water rightsinthe hands ofthe people,
governed by boards of community residentsthatare elected by the people. You must
vote yes to put thison the ballot.
I do have some comments on Bill21, moving forward. Excuse me, I need to take a
breath. There's justso much to say and I’mso disappointed inwhat we're doing here.
This Bill21, readingthrough thisbillas fastlyas Icould thismorning, but Ihave read it
inthe past and Iread newspaper articles.Ittellsme thatthereare a lotof members of
our localgovernment thatare out oftouch with the actualcommunity that'slivinghere.
People survivingday-to-day here, that can'taffordhomes here do not have the luxury
to hold concern forsuch bills.Our general community cannot be burdened with home
lightchanges and possiblefines upwards to $1,000 a day that they are unable to
comply.
One thingIalways look atwhen Ilook at billslikethisare who stands to profit?Who's
going to make money from this? This isgoing to be millionsofdollarsacross the island.
Ihave spent years on our beaches as a lifeguard.Ihave spent decades paddlingour
channels, surfingour reefs and fishingour waters and Igottatellyou personallyI've
never in my entirelifeseen a dead seabird,nor have 1been able to finda study that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 77
explains how they know thatthese seabirds are dying from being disorientedby lights?
Iwould reallyliketo see that.Itwould make more sense and maybe Icould get behind
this?
Iwould liketo know ifthey have done any testingon these seabirds though to see if
there are any tracesofglyphosates or paraquat that'ssprayed on the islanddaily.Why
do we know that these chemicals, excuse me, we know these chemicals are being
used here daily. It'son the Mahi Pono website, they tellyou rightup front. I can't
believe this is allowed. I can't believe this company is allowed to operate here, the
same with Monsanto or now Bayer. It'sunbelievable to me.
I do not support thisbillat thistime. Ijust can't. The hardworking citizensof Maui
County do not need more restrictionsor finesplaced upon them. We need to look at
our government and theirprioritiesand put the energy and taxpayers money towards
things that benefitand help our people. For example, this$40 millionthat has been
put aside for a culturalcenter for visitors,before we do that,we need a firestationin
Haiku, or a firestationin Olowalu. We desperate, these are desperately needed for
the safety and well-being of the people of East, West, and South Maui. Our
government prioritiesneed to be adjusted.
Itrulyhope we do go forward,or we do not go forward withthisbill,excuse me. As a
firecaptain retired,Ican tellyou rightnow, the response times to the people on West
Maui, East Maui and South Maui are deadly. Icannot believeafter35 years we're still
dealing with this.The societyand the citizenshas grown exponentiallybut we stillno
have any advanced lifesupport systems, ALS, paramedics forthe outlyingpeople of
the islandof Maui. That $40 millionwe could easilybuilda firestationinHaiku,a fire
station in Olowalu, and ambulances and ALS services through the Fire Department.
That's all I have.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much foryour testimony.
Thank you. The next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up totestifyisJr.Tupai inthe chambers
to be followed by Jay Penniman.
MR. JR. TUPAI (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD;
Aloha, my name isJr.Tupai. Coming in my privatecapacityas one ofthe people of
Hawaii. Mahalo to the Council forthe opportunity to testifyand stand instrong support
of Resolution 22-119.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 78
You know, I echo the sentiments of many of the previous testifiersincluding but not
limited to Mr. Bell, Mr. Strubhar, Mr. and Mrs. Brown, Mr. Adam, Mrs. McKay,
Mrs. Ransom, Mrs. Purdy and the countless others who willstand in favor of
Resolution 22-119. Many ofthem have already spoken on the talkingpoints,Ididwant
to speak so I'llsimply pulifrom, let'spullfrom the other statement.
I'llpullfrom His Majesty King Kamehameha III,1843, February 25. Iquote, "Where
are you. chiefs,peoples, commons from my ancestors,and people from foreignlands?
Hear ye. Imake known to you thatIam ingreat perplexityby reason ofdifficultiesinto
which Ihave been brought today withoutjustcause, therefore1have given away the
lifeof the land. Hear ye. But my ruleover you, my people, and your privilegeswill
continue,for Ihave hope thatthe lifeof the land willbe restoredto the people when
my actions are justified".
Five months later,July 31, you guys know the story,Kamehameha 111makes the
statement that is now our State motto, "Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Aina ika Pono", "The life
of the land isperpetuated in righteousness". Part of thatrighteousness isas servants
to be rightstanding with the people. As servants to be beholding to the people. As
servantsto have your allegianceslieprimarilyand firstlywiththe people. And partof
thiswith that isthatthiswhole thing,you know, that you should be answerable to the
people at alltimes.
Ms. McKay asked a specificquestion,thataccording toArticle1,Section 1 ofour State
Constitution,allauthorityof government restswith the people and thatwhen they ask,
they'recoming in,we're coming inas the employers, as the bosses. That we're coming
for answers and we deserve the answers. Bottom line ifwe're not heard forthe past
number of hours, thatoverwhelmingly the voice of the people isto pass thisResolution
22-119. Mahalo and Iyield.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Jay
Penniman, to be followed by JenniferChapman.
CHAIR LEE; You're muted, Mr. Penniman.
James, ishe muted on his side or what? Can you help him?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, he's muted on his end, Icannot unmute him.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 79
CHAIR LEE; Go to the next one and come back to him.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then the next testifierisJenniferChapman.
MS. JENNIFER CHAPMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi. Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. CHAPMAN: Okay, perfect. My name isJennifer Chapman. Thank you so much for
holding thisand listeningto the citizensof Maui. I am opposed to the Waipu'ilani
housing project.Iliverightacross the streetfrom itand although Iam infavor and Ido
believethatwe need more workforce housing Ipersonallydon'tthinkthat$700,000 is
workforce pricing. Cause I can tellyou that my husband and I bought thisplace in
2016 and ithad been on the market fora year-and-a-half,and itwas rundown and we
got itfor$570,000 and we are workforce. I'm a waitress and he works inconstruction
and we got a killerdeal where we could put three percent down and atthattime allwe
had was $19,000 fora down payment.
And, you know, over the years, yes, the equity inthe house has gone up, but we had
to put on a new roof,put ina basin wallto prevent flooding,put ina French drain,take
out old carpetingthat's25-years old. So, we put inover $250 to $300,000. So the last
meeting the County asked how much it'svalued? And to be honest with you, ifIwas
to selltoday it'llstillbe inthe negative of what Iinvestedinthishome. And Iinvested
in this flood zone because it'sall I could afford.
And so, I'mopposing thishuge dense thingbecause we don'thave sidewalks,we don't
have lights.Iwalk at nightwith a vest on, a lightvest. There's constantlycats hiton
the road when you'redrivingaround because people speed down thisroad.
The floodingisout of control,that'swhy we put in a French drainwas to prevent our
yard from floodingout. And thislastrainfallthatwe had in December, our yard was
flooded. We justhad thisspecialdrainput inbecause my husband isinconstruction,
and itwas able to prevent itfrom getting into our house because we're technically
seven inches below sea level.
And so Ijustdon'tfeelthatthisisthe rightprojectforthisarea. Ithinkthisarea isa
wetland. Ihave succulents thatgrow justout of the grass,thatare wetland succulents,
they are likedry native plants.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 80
And, you know, the developers have been offeredthe idea of a land swap, and putting
itin a more safe area above the road like,mauka side instead of makai. And Ithink, I
was toldthatthey said thiswas going to take too long,so the answer isno. And Ijust
don't feel likethis is something that they'redoing because they reallywant to do
something forthe community.
Ithinkthisisjust,as they’ve calledit,a fill-inproject.We don'twant a fill-inprojectin
a single-familyhome area. This isan old neighborhood. You have familieshere that
are generation upon generation,there'sfour,five,six cars parked in driveways living
in one house. There's no parking on thisroad at all.And so, it'sjustgoing to create
more congestion.
They're accidents on South KiheiRoad allthe time. People have been hitby cars right
here at thisintersection.One guy was dragged and in the hospitalfor six months.
Nobody saw him because there'sno light.There's no crossroads. Imean, it'sjust,if
there'sthe option of swapping lands. I'llfinishup. ! know thatmy time isup. But if
there'san option of swapping lands,then why wouldn'twe consider making affordable
housing that'sa life-longthing for people instead of puttingthem inharm's way, with
you know, floods,and accidents,and overcrowding and allthose things?
So Ijustwanted to say that and I also wanted to just reiteratethat,you know, this
project says that it'sfor the community and workforce housing. They have one
bedroom, one bath,450 square feet. How isa familygoing to livein450 square feet?
That'sjustimpossible. So, it'snot reallyactuallyforthe workforce. So, thank you very
much forlettingme speak and thank you allforlisteningto me.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person we have signed up to testifyisJay Penniman
ifhe's ready,to be followed by Suzanne Dorn.
Perhaps Jay isnot ready yet. Then we'llmove on to Suzanne Dorn.
MR. JAY PENNIMAN rtestifvinaon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1(2022)1:
Iam. Hello,hello.Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we got you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 81
MR. PENNIMAN: Alright. Very good. Aloha, Chair Lee. Salut, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, and Members of the committee. Thank you for puttingup with allof this
and taking allof our input.
My major need to testifytoday comes from the document thatwas, the memorandum
that came to me yesterday from Corporation Counsel that isfullof misrepresentations
and falseinformationbasically.A lotof the testimony we've heard so fartoday isfrom
people who are upset because they believethatthisbillisdoing things which itdoes
not do. And I'm not going to spend time with doing that now because there's more
important thingsjustto cover inthisshort period of time.
Number 1, on the memorandum, there'sexpressed a . . .conflictof interestfrom one
ofour resource persons, and there'sno mention ofthe othervendors, who have spoken
and them having any conflictof interest. And ifyou look deeply into Dr. Adams'
background, you willsee he has given a lotmore than he has taken. Fiehas provided
the lights,not the filters.The Corporation Counsel is unclear on what he has done on
Hawaii island.
Then they go on to impeach my work with the paper by Travis Longcore and they
completely misrepresent what issaid there. The spectralgraphs thatthey put on there
are responses of the birds,not the bird'sbehavioral activities.It'swhat they do when
they have them in a laboratoryand theireyes flash. And so, they come up with this
figure,itdoes not say anything about the actualbehavior of the birds.
And then in a couple of places now we have heard the State and the Federal
government do not support these. My quote from the letterof February 24 to then
Directorof Public Works, Rowena Dagdag-Andaya from David Smith,Administratorof
Hawaii Division of Forestry and Wildlife. We therefore recommend that these
replacement LED lightsbeing installedunder an exemption from the preparationofan
EA be designed or filteredso as to have a correlatedcolortemperature of22,000 Kelvin
or less,or a blue lightcontent of lessthan two percent. Blue lightcontentrefersto the
amount of energy and it'sthe same definitionas Hawaii and Bill21. LED lightswith
these specificationshave been found to have fewer impacts on protected wildlife
including seabirds and turtlesand are consistent for example with the lighting
ordinance on Hawaii.
February 25, to Kurt Watanabe from Lindsy Asman, U.S. Fish and Wildlife,Island
Team Manager for Hawaii islandand Maui Nui, again quoting,"To avoid and minimize
significantimpacts forfederallylistedHawaii seabirds and sea turtles,we recommend
you incorporatethe followingmeasures intoyour projectdescription.Fullyshieldall
outdoor lightsso the bulb can only be seen from below and is not visiblefrom the
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 82
shoreline. LED lightsshould have a CCT of lessthan 2,200 Kelvinor minimize blue-
green lightcontent, i.e.,less than tvjopercent". And then the same definition,actually
her definition is even more restrictive.
The Federal and the State governments are in favor of these lightingissues,and the
billspecificallyexempts sports. All these fears for sports have been generated by
Corporation Counsel's falsetestimony inthismemorandum.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. PENNIMAN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions?
Member Sugimura, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Iwonder ifyou could give us a copy of that
letterthatyou justread thatwas February 24, did you say,to Rowena Dagdag-Andaya,
then Deputy Directorof PublicWorks.
MR. PENNIMAN: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: is that correct?
MR. PENNIMAN: Ican certainlyshare those with you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
MR. PENNIMAN: Actually,they have, they have been already entered intotestimony, I
believe.
Ifyou look inthe record oftestimony,they are there.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. You're not going to submit itthen, ifwe have
it in our record.
MR. PENNIMAN: I can submit itas well.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Iknow we are not going to get to thisitem till
Monday, itlooks like.But Ijustwanted, ifthere are no objections,toask Mr. Penniman
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 83
ifhe'llbe availableMonday for,as a resource person as somebody who isour native
Hawaiian birdexpert and partof the recovery program.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members. Mr. Penniman, would you be availableon
Monday?
MR. PENNIMAN: Iwillcertainlymake myself available.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisSuzanne Dorn, to
be followed by Jordan Hocker.
MS. SUZANNE DORN (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi,my name isSuzanne Dorn, Iliverightnext to 16 East Waipu'ilaniRoad. Ioppose
the Hale Waipu'ilaniProject. Ifyou do not liveinthisfloodplain,you do not know how
dangerous and terrifyingitis.These floodevents are notjusta few hours.These flood
events can lastfordays. Itcan take months to fullyrecover. Ihave experienced many
floodslivinghere. We have 100 sandbags stockpiledinthe cornerof our yard at all
times. During storms and flood advisories,my husband and Ihave to sleep inshifts
so we can be alertto the flooding.Floods have damaged our home and caused us to
make claims on our flood insurance. Flood insurance in this area is essential.
In my lasttestimony, Isuggested keeping the zoning to R-3 single-familyhomes, but
afterreading allthe documents forthisdevelopment and listeningtoexpertcomments,
I'm now convinced any development builton thislotwillhave a directnegativeimpact
on my home and my neighborhood. I'm asking for this property to become a
conservation zone and a land swap isthe best option.
There's State land set aside near the RT park forabout 1200 homes. County land at
Maui Lani, Kihei Police Station and Puunene. Although the developer claims thatthey
are fullyentitledto buildmarket ratehomes, thatisnot a given,thatshould notsway
your decisionto disapprove thisproject.Because even a market ratehome projectwill
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 84
triggerthe SMA process. Even a minor SMA can be sent through the major permit
process.
At the lastmeeting, Carnicellisaid they were open to a land swap. The only concern
would be that itwould take time. But why should we rush this? We should not,we
should put thisprojectin a safe locationwhere it'sa win-win foreverybody. Please
consider ailthe people currentlylivinginthisneighborhood, and do not increase the
riskoffloodingthatthisprojectcan cause. There should be no new homes ... Do not
approve thisproject.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon, Ms. Dorn.
I'mgoing to ask you a question,but you don'thave to answer it.You mentioned about
your flood insurance. How much do you pay per month on your floodinsurance? And
ifyou don'twant to answer it,do you thinkpeople ... get intoaffordablehomes, will
that be a factorintheirbills,isitsignificant?
MS. DORN: That, that willbe a factorand I know people that have moved out of thisarea
because they cannot affordflood insurance.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? Ifnot,thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. DORN: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Jordan Hocker, to be
followed by Gabe Krueger.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-61. 22-62, 22-63. 22-64, &
22-67: Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 EDI: and Bill Nos. 21 CD1 EDI (2022) & 92 CD1
(2022)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. I have a lotof items but I'm going to keep itas briefas
possible. Iappreciate you all'spatience and willingnessto hear the public.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 85
So forCR 22-61, regardingthe Waipu'ilanidevelopment, i'lljustecho what's already
been said. I was, I sat on the initialplanning commission meeting regarding the
development and, and flood concerns, and Ithink that you've heard that plentyfrom
me so, I'm not sure that thisshould go through as its,as itsproposed in that location
as affordablehousing deserves to be safe and secure for,forour residents.
So, I'llmove on to CR 22-62, the new method of affordable housing sales pricing.I
want to say thatI'minsupport ofthis.Iknow there has been some kickback regarding
possible subsidizationneeded by the County. But Maui County has plentyof money
moving through itand I think that there are opportunitiesto support our affordable
housing fund forany subsidiesthatmight need to occur ifdevelopersthinkthatthat’s
necessary. So, Ijustwant to thank, thank everyone's hard work, who's been working
on that.
So, I'llmove on to CR 22-63, which isBill39, long-term rentalpropertytax exemption
forlong-term rental.Iwillsay thatthe initialinclination,propertytax incentiveforlong
term rentalhas kept my familyinour rentalforanother year. So, Iwas actuallyableto
sign a one-year lease and enticemy landlordto,to take advantage ofthatpropertytax
exemption. So, I'm in strong support of Bill39 and Iwant to appreciateVice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez for bringingthat sortof thing forward. Ihope, Iwould justsay you
should approve thispropertytax exemption, and make sure thatas many people know
about itas possible. So, make ita priorityinthe officeto do as much outreach as can
be done, because I think that this is even more attractivethan the property tax
exemption initially.And my landlordwas very happy about it.
And then I'llmove on to CR 22-65 [sic],Bill110, forthe veterans 70 percent disability
exemption. I am in support of this. I would ask that Councilmembers be open to
possibly recognizingthatwith the rateof inflationand the high cost of livingthateven
a lower disabilityexemption would be availablepossiblythan that70 percent amount.
So, I'llmove on. I'm going to rush through thisreallyquicklycause you guys are so
busy and this isa lotgoing on.
Regarding CC [sic]22-67, for the eminent domain, authorizingeminent domain
acquisitionfor what could be a community center. I would say with the ongoing
investigationthat'sreallybeing pushed forward by the publicthata stop-workorder
would be more advantageous. Idon'tknow about using County funds to acquirethis
propertyjustyet,with there being as much on the tableneeding to be looked intoas
possible. So, Ido have concerns around justsimply acquiringthatproperty.Ialso,I
have concerns around the developer being given a payday forvery,very poor behavior.
So, that is,I,I'm not fullyin support of that. Ido trustthisbody to thoroughlyvet that,
but as the investigationintothe Planning Department regardingthisparticularproperty
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 86
isgoing on, Ithinkthatitwould be smart to probably pause thisinitiative.That ismy
my personal opinion on that.
And then moving on to Resolution22-119 regarding the water authority.I'm in full
support ofthisgoing on the ballot.There's no reason to vote no on thiswhen the public
wants you to vote yes. Just letus vote on it.That's what we're asking for,and Ithink
that'salmost verbatim what I said in my lasttestimony. So, I hope that Members of
this Council willhear that and, and allow us to vote on it,you know. Whether you agree
on why we want itor not,Ithinkthatthat'sreallyimportant.
And then I'lljustgo on to say that Iam insupport of Bill21. Ithinkthatproper inputs
and exemptions have been put intothisbill.1know we've heard a loton itand it'svery
contentious, but it'snot a new idea. And so, I think that ifeveryone can be
accommodated then, then it'ssomething that 1support.
And then. I'm in fullsupport as well,which Itestifiedbefore on Bill92, which isthe
ordinance relatingto residency requirements forour boards and commissions. I'mstill
infullsupport ofthat. Ithinkthatthere'snot anyone who knows betterwhat's going on
inMaui County and how to properlyvolunteerforboards and commissions than people
who are activelylivinghere.
So, that is,that'sthe end of that. Iwant to honor you folksforyour very largeagenda
today and wish you good luck.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,Isee no questions.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Did you have your hand up?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I'm sorry. I don't have a question for Ms. Hocker,
thank you so much. But Iwas wondering ifMs. Chamberlain could come inand testify?
She's here now in the chambers. Like we've mentioned before lunch, she has a plane
to catch.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members? Ifnot,Mr. Clerk please callup Ms. Chamberlain.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person to testifyisGina Chamberlain, to
be followed by Gabe Krueger.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 87
MS. GINA CHAMBERLAIN (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-62):
Hi. I am Gina Chamberlain, and I am the single-familyprogram manager for Rural
Community Assistance Corporation or RCAC, and Iwas privilegedto be able to speak
also to the Affordable Housing Committee. So, Iwanted to speak reallyquicklyon, I
have itrighthere, 22-62, on the,to change the,to a new method of determining the
sales priceforaffordablehousing unit.
We are reallyinsupport of thisinthat itbrings the, the kind of the underwritingcriteria,
the way the program is designed in alignment with some of the main affordable
financing options for low- and moderate-income households. It,some of the main
sources would be FHA and also USDA 502 Direct and 502 Guaranteed. So to
eliminate,currentlythose mortgage financingoptionsdon't reallyfitwith the way the
program is designed so you're eliminatingone of the, some of the largestpools of
affordablefinancing.
And then when you put thatin lightof the reallyhigh rentcosts,the idea of folkswho
are already cost burdened coming down with the down payment requirements thatare
required to make conventional financingwork isunrealistic.And then by making this
change, you are then adding the key normal components when you'relookingatthat,
what we callthe front-endratioor the housing ratio.And by adding that,that means
you are helpingfolksget intoa house, and not startoffbeing extremely cost burdened,
but startingoffin a way that'saffordableso thatthe likelihoodof them being able to
succeed on the long-term is,ismuch greater.
So, Ithinkby making thischange you are opening up those huge mortgage pools of
funds that folks can access, and also then enables other partnershipsto get additional
resources that often have the same criteria that are attached. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyisGabe Krueger, to
be followed by JeffGilbreath.
MR. GABE KRUEGER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi, everybody. Thanks for taking the time to do this. I'm on my wife'scomputer so
that'swhy the name on the bottom isnot my name. Anyway, it'sGabriel E. Krueger. I
oppose the Waipu'ilaniHale project. My property isapproximately 16 feetaway from
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 88
this proposed project. And justto give you guys a littlebitof feedback and some
knowledge of what, what thisproperty islike,four feetunderneath my yard rightover
here is an ocean of water. And so what does that mean? That means that the water
table is four feet down.
So, the surrounding area can only take on so much and absorb so much water,which
iswhy the background of some of our members thattestifiedearlierwas a, you know,
a flood zone on that intersection. So, I decided as my wife stated, I'vedecided five
years ago to put a French drain in. It'seightfeet wide, fiftyfeet long and eightfeet
deep. So, Ihad to go intothe water tableto actuallymake itwork. So, I'mpreparing
for the worst, but ifthat happens, Imean, Istillcould floodout,who knows? And so,
not everybody can do that. Ican cause I,you know, have the knowledge ofdoing it.
And what, so the other partof the equation is,you talkabout exemptions, you talked
about givingexemptions to the developers. Weil, my property,my concrete in my
house is6.7 feetabove sea level.And why do Iknow that? Because fiveyears ago I
triedto apply forgettinga buildingpermitto builda, an ohana, a detached ohana which
I'mallowed to do on my propertybecause Ihave 10,000 square feet.Well,inorderto
do that,Ihave to raisemy floorto seven feetabove sea levelinorderto be allowed to
buildon my property.So, everywhere inmy house, Ihave to raisethe floorfiveinches
just to builda ohana. So, I'm not allowed to get an exemption forthat,and Icould
provide another home fora familyto livein,but ican't,because the costto raisethe
whole floorfiveinches would be, itjustwould be insane compared tobuildingan ohana.
The otherthingisyesterday a friendof mine was at the intersectionofWaipu'ilaniand
South KiheiRoad and got pushed intothe streeton hiselectricbikeby a U-Haul truck.
Luckilynobody got hurt and everything ended up being okay, but itwas a, itwas a
close call.So ifwe're going to add 56 parkingstallsor whatever they are proposingto
do, it'sway too much trafficforthatintersection.And Iknow they were proposingto
go on the other side of it,on the other side of the propertyas well. But,okay, and to
wrap itup--
CHAIR LEE; Please conclude.
MR. KRUEGER: Okay, thank you. To wrap itup, the biggestred flagofthisprojectiswhen
the developer was walking around my neighborhood, to my neighbors and tryingto
have them signoffon theireasement to,fortheir,forthisdevelopment. And what that
tellsme isthey needed more square footage inorder,inordertobuildwhat theywanted
to buildthere. So, and my neighbors, two of them, signed offon, they signed offon
givingtheireasement away tothisdeveloper. The thirdone,luckilydidn't.So thattells
me there'ssomething shady and something wrong with thisproject,likeitshouldn't,it
justdoesn't belong there. And I'mhoping thatallofthe Councilmembers use common
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 89
sense thinking,and we justbuildthissomewhere else. It'sjust not the place forthis,
forthisproject.So again,thank you forthe time,and thanks foreverybody participating
today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I think Councilmember Paltin's hand was up first.Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Member Johnson.
Ijustwas wondering about the partwhere you said you went eightfeet down intoa
four feetunderneath water table. Willthey letyou do thatwith an SMA permit,go into
the water table? Dig? Like what isthe permittingprocess to dig intothe water table?
MR. KRUEGER: Well, it'sthe water under my property,so you can dig intothat ifyou want
to.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But you liveinthe SMA?
MR. KRUEGER: It'sbrackish, it'sbrackish water. And so, in order to, in order to put the
French drain,the French drain came with the property. And inorder,inorder,whoever
put itin,the developer,didn'tdo itthe correctway. So we had to do itthe correctway.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's my time.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. So, I only have 30 seconds so ifyou
could justexplainwhat a French drain isin layman's terms, so we reallyunderstand
what you'retalkingabout here. Thank you.
MR. KRUEGER: So, the water goes intoa drain,a drainbox, thatcame withthe property.
Allthese propertieshad drain boxes thatwere, you know, whoever the developer was
put urn in.Well,afterdiscoveringmy house flooded the firsttime when itrained,when
[moved in,Idiscovered that itdidn'tgo anywhere, so itdoesn'tdo anything. So, Ihad
to dig itup and installthe French drain. So, what happens isthe water goes intothe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 90
drain and then gets displaced under the ground, so the water that'son, the surface
water has a chance to,to absorb under the ground instead of staying on top of the
ground and floodingout your house.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
underneath the box?
So, there's no, you have a box and there's a pipe
MR. KRUEGER: Yeah. There's a, there’s-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, so there'sa pipe underneath the box. I'm sorry.I'm
out of time. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? Idon't see any hands. So, Members it's
fasterifyou justsay, raiseyour hand and, and say something, okay? Then itwillbe
easier for me to get you.
Thank you, Mr. Chapman. Oh, I'm sorry,that was, that'syour wife'sname. What is
your name again?
MR. KRUEGER: Gabe Krueger.
CHAIR LEE: Krueger. Mr. Krueger. Thank you, Mr. Krueger.
MR. KRUEGER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And speaking of Krueger, James next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next testifier,the next individualsigned up to testifyis
JeffGilbreath,to be followed by ChristineDavis.
MR. JEFF GILBREATH (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-62):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Jeff Gilbreath with Hawaii Community Lending and Hawaii
Community Assets, good to see you. First,Iwant to mahalo thisCouncil reallyfor,for
takingthe issue of affordablehousing seriously.
I'm presenting on Bill107, I think it's22-62, but I stand on my writtentestimony in
opposition to the billinit'scurrentform. And Irecommend language thatwould ensure
subsidized sales priceguidelinesare only triggeredifthe Council commits the subsidy
to our local,low-income people so they can buy the home they can affordand the
builderscan recoup theirconstructioncosts.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 91
This is the fourth time I'm coming to you to say this. This Council paid Hawaii
Community Assets $300,000 to develop a housing plan. We engaged over
1,600 County residentsand had 28 affordablehousing experts who over eightmonths
did the hard work of defininga comprehensive approach thatwould work in creating
certaintyand lead to more affordablehomes forlocalresidentsas fastas possible.
I'veheard multipletimes thatfunding isavailableto subsidizebuildersand thatisgreat,
but we need to subsidize the buyers directly.Here's why. Subsidizingthe buildersand
not our localpeople leads to additionalState regulatoryrequirements which could
extend the projectby up to three years. The substance provided by the County gets
eaten up in that time as the builder pays intereston the loan. For 100 percent
affordablehousing builders,they can'taffordthree years indelay.
The use of bonds as well,the use of bonds isa great toolforaffordablehousing, but
inan interestrateenvironment likeyou have today, bonds are not as attractiveas they
were when you'reat historicallylow interestrates.The bonds can'tbe soldtosubsidize
the builderor even the buyer forthatmatter,a projectwillbe dead.
So. I'm hoping thisfourthtime that we put forward some language that can starta
conversation with you folksto help us get the language rightthe firsttime;right?Create
the certaintywe need, givethe flexibilityto address the shiftsinthe economy, and most
importantly,allow our locallow-income people to buy the homes they can affordand
ensure our builders can continue to build the affordable homes. So thank you so much.
I'mwillingto take any questions.
COUNCILMEMBERPALTIN: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Jeff. Members.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was Tamara first.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERPALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Gilbreath.
CHAIR LEE: Idon't,Idon't see that on my screen, so thanks forpointingthatout.
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 92
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Gilbreath.
So, you said you don'tsupport 107 initscurrentform. Did you have a form thatyou did
support?
MR. GILBREATH: Isubmitted writtentestimony with some proposed language, you know, I
thinkthat might, you might be able to utilize,utilizethat. Itwould set up a standard
sales price guidelineand a subsidized sales price guideline that would be triggered
only when there'scommitted funds forthe project.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, but you didn'thave itinthe form of an amendment?
MR. GILBREATH: Oh, Idid. Imean, Iproposed itinthe writtentestimony Isubmitted to you
folks.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
MR. GILBREATH: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Then we have Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was going to be my question to JeffGilbreath. So, I'll
go lookforyour testimony. And are you then recommending thisgo back to Committee
to be amended with what your language is?
MR. GILBREATH: I'm not sure with how you folks,yeah, I mean ifthat'syour folksprocess
then yes, Imean Ithinkwe should, let'sget itright,let'sget itrightthe firsttime.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Not what we're seeing today and that you
recommend that itbe reworked?
MR. GILBREATH: Yep. And be consistent with the plan. This isexactlywhat we, we said
withthe plans. So, you folkspaid us, let'suse it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any otherquestions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Jeff.Next testifier.
MR. GILBREATH: Thanks, folks. Take care.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Christine Davis, to be
followed by Napua Hueu.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 93
[testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FD1 and BillMS. CHRISTINE DAVIS
No. 112 (2022)1:
Aloha everyone. I'm back at the officeto testify.I am stronglyin support of the
amendment to establisha Maui County Community Water Authority,and a East Maui
Regional Community Board, as well as having thisplaced on the ballotforthe people
to decide on. Ithinkthisis a great firststep in the rightdirectionto tryto undo the
horribleinjusticethat'sbeen happening over the decades.
And concerning water here, 1understand likehow you going tohave a for-profitagency
be incharge .. .likethey'renot,they'renot beholden to the people. And it'sa public
resource,you know? It'snot,they have to show theirshareholdersthatthey'remaking
money. So to me, those thingsare inconflictand it'sabouttime thatthe water resource
goes in controlof the people and that'sthe County. The County Council represents
the people ofthisisland.
And 1feelthat EMI has a bad track record of upgrading the system, fixingleaks.They
are not even a good steward of what they'vebeen incontrolof.They've liedto people
as faras likethey are suppose to restorethe water,they haven't.So, Idon'treallysee
how, Idon't know, likeEMI, A&B/Mahi Pono, whatever you want to callthem, to me,
likeit'sstillallthe same thing,you know? Oh but,A&B has tiestothe islandand Mahi
Pono isa Canadian company. That isso ridiculous.
So, and also to like,they don'thave any incentiveto spend money to fixthe system,
whereas, the County isgoing to be able to get grants and they'regoing to be able to
upgrade the system. And that'simportanttothe people,it'simportanttotheocean life,
it'simportant to the stream life,it'simportant to people thatthe farmersthatfeed the
people of thisisland. So, to me likeit'simportant to have a water authorityand a
community board and have theirmana'o and experience and expertisethatgoes back
generations. That'swho 1want incharge of the water.
Like, Iwant to hear what they got to say about how we're going to manage thisreally
precious importantlimitedresource and not have a Canadian company. Look attheir
fields,likeIdon'teven know ifthey know how to farm, but they'retrying;and you're
going to have them incontrol.
So, to me likeifyou're able to approve thiswater authorityand thiscommunity board
and have the voters vote for it,to me thisisgoing to benefiteverybody thatrespects
water and the propertiesof thisreallyprecious resource.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 94
Ialso justwant to mention, likeInoticed thatthere'ssome other things that Ijustwant
to say realquick,thatI,Iknow you guys have a reallybusy day and Iappreciatetaking
the time to listento me on this.So, Ijustwant to urge the Mayor to conduct, or authorize
a comprehensive feasibilitystudy ofthe EMI water system. To me, thisislong overdue,
and I'mglad likefinallythisisallcoming to light,and we're finallydealingwiththisnow.
Ialso agree thatthere should be forthisBillNo. 112, thatthere should be to establish
the pay plan for a procurement specialistand a Hawaiian language communication
specialistin the Office of Council Services. Yeah, Ithink that isa reallygood use of
money, and Ithinkthatwe are investingallthismoney in ‘oleloinour schools and it's
an officiallanguage of thisislandwhich isHawaii, and so Ithinkitisimportantthatwe
offerHawaiian language services in our County services. So, Istronglyin support of
thatand again, Iappreciatethe Council forallyour hardwork and yourtime forlistening
to me on thisissue. Aloha and have a good weekend everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member King. No? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, Ididn'traisemy hand.
MS. DAVIS: Okay. Alright,mahalo everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait. Wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Mr. Clerk, I'dliketo take a
10 minute break at thispoint. So, we shalltake a recess and returnat 3:02. Okay?
3:02. Short recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:51 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:04 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of July 15, 2022 please reconvene. Members, we've
asked, we've been asked ifwe would allow someone else to testifybecause he has to
catch a flightback to Oahu. Any objectionsto lettinghim go?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. ToddApo. Mr. Clerk,ishe coming down?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 95
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MR. TODD APO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-62):
Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Chair and Council. Thank you forthe non-objectionon that.
Sorry ifIhad to push up but appreciatebeing able to spend the day withyou. Testifying
in regards to ultimatelyBill107. Three main messages Ithinkforyou today is,one,
very much appreciate as JeffGilbreath mentioned, the work thatyou allhave put inas
a Council inthe importance of thisfrom a Hawaii Community Foundation standpoint.
You know, we're looking at things statewide and what thisCouncil isdoing and the
attentionto ithas been fantasticand so we're working with allthe counties indifferent
ways to findthe solutionsbut reallyappreciate the chance to have these dialogswith
you to tryand come up with the rightsolutionsforaffordablehousing issues.
Second, similarto JeffGilbreath'stestimony, we do have concerns about the current
language inthe bill.You know, while we thinkthere are betterways inthe long run to
make sure, Ithinkwe are allon the same goal, right,isto get affordablehousing for
Maui residents. And the actions that you guys have previouslytaken in regards to
creatingthe list,the County controlledlistof qualifiedbuyers isreallythe opportunity
to take that and use the money that you're willingto put intoaffordablehousing efforts
by gettingthe money to the buyers.
Ithinkifwe have the chance to talkthisthrough, whether you'reable to defer thisso
that we can have that discussion or if this does move forward, we're committed
between firstand second reading to work with allof you, especiallywith Committee
Chair and hisstaffto tryto findthatrightway. Make sure thatwe ailunderstand the
potentialimpacts of those two options.
But as we started looking at itfrom Hawaii Community Foundation in that broader
systematic change, the opportunityto get money to,directlyto the qualifiedbuyers on
your list,which means they are residents,thatwillgive them long-termimpact and
make sure instead of thislaser-focused way of puttingthat,those resources together.
Because 1 think there'ssome risks,ifthe money goes to the developer,there'stime
lag,there'squestions, that itmay or may not go to your residentinthe long run?
And then alternatively,you have the way to directitthrough a billto make sure the
department gets the money to those who need itmost, getthem intolower cost housing
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 96
that they can afford,not only at a purchase price,but with theirmortgage payments
going forward.
We look at how to reduce that cost burden, and you take justone example of some of
thatgrant money, itwouldn'tbe a lot,goes to allowingthem to pay down theirpoints
on theirmortgage, especiallywith where mortgage ratesare going. That'sa huge long
term impact to that family,that can'thappen ifit'sdone thatthe money goes to the
developers. So, there'sthose types of things that Ithinkifwe can have the time to talk
and again, whether it'sbeing able to defer thisbilland have those discussions or
between firstand second reading.
We atthe Hawaii Community Foundation are committed, Iknow Keoni has testifiedon
behalf of our foundation previouslyand together we'llbe working with allof you to try
to figurethisout to keep thisbillgoing and to get to an answer on affordablehousing.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members? Isee Member Sugimura and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you for testifyingand Members thank
you forallowingTodd to go forward because of hisflightthathe has to catch.
But Ithinkyour Hawaii Community Foundation representative,l‘m sorry-
MR. APO: Keoni.
COUNCIMLMEMBER SUGIMURA: Keoni. Yeah, Keoni. He did also mention that when we
were talkingabout this in Committee. So, he's consistent with what you're saying.
Yeah.
MR. APO; Yeah, and 1think... by going directlyto the residentsisyou can starttakingcare
of things likehaving, incentivizingthem to stay in theiraffordablehomes. And so
there'sthese otherways, and you can also buildinshared appreciationso some ofthat
money comes back to the County, itcould sortof be revolvingto help people in the
future. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thanks, yeah, we needed to add to it.
So, thank you. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 97
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Apo foryour testimony.
Ijustwas wondering ifyou can address the other types of mortgages with the lower
price point that Ms. Chamberlain was speaking about. And, and even ifwe help the
folks on the list,ifthe affordable housing isn'taffordable, then we have to help
everybody to buy the affordablehousing?
MR. APO; So, ultimatelythe pricepoint isgoing to be set under the currentformula, right?
Which isthe current HUD formula that,Ithink everyone is used to using. Iknow the
intentof thisbillwas to tryto change thatformula to bring itdown. Ifthe grant money
comes out and isable to reduce the mortgage amount you can stillget the qualification.
Now, to the,to your firstpartof your question,there may be some programs thataren't
available given the price point and so that'spart of the factorsthatwe need to talk
through and see where that balance isas we go forward. My reaction,reactionary
thought isthat it'sstillbetterto get itto the residentto lower theirmortgage, and still
have enough product. But we'llhave to look atthatand agree,we need to lookatthat.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, you're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: We have another question from Member Kama. We have another question
from Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Sorry. Thank you so much Mr. Apo forbeing
here.
So, my understanding from what Mr. Gilbreathwas saying that,thatinorderforthisto
work the way itwas intended, that the price guidelines must run concurrent with the
subsidy thatwe would be offeringonto the homeowner themselves. Isthatcorrect?
MR. APO: Yes, from a development standpoint,the developer needs to know thatthe subsidy
willbe there way earlyintheirprocess, during the predevelopment process inorderto
move the projectforward. So Ithinkthatwas his point,thatifit'snot there early,the
project'snot going to go.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Right. But also,thatthatdevelopers alsoneeded togetwhatever
subsidy they needed separate from what the homeowner themselves would be able to
get from the Affordable Housing Fund.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 98
MR. APO: And Ithinkyou could structureitone-way or the other. You could combine them.
And that'ssort of the, the magic potion to figureout withinthistime to have that
discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE; Member King,and then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks forbeing here,Todd. Appreciate you
being here in person, too.
Just wanted to ask you, the billthat we're looking,we're going to be probably
addressing on Monday. So, yours and Jeffs thoughts are thatthere isa way to word
itwhere itcan be, where itcan be clearthat the subsidy goes to the homeowner, versus
the developer? Or are you justsaying thatwe need a differentbill?Or, you know, is
it-
MR. APO: Ithink itcan be amended to reach the goal.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. APO: Because Ithink allthe intent,and it'sthe rightgoal thatwe allagree on. It'sjust,
it'sgettingthrough the amendment. And Idid get to see Jeffslanguage thathe has in
histestimony. Itstartsto get there. Ithinkwe can tightenitup. But again,that'swhy
Ithink ifwe work together,we can get to an answer with thisbill.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo, Madam Chair.
Aloha, Mr. Apo, thank you forcoming by. So, the language thatyou'reproposing,this
willbe an inputfrom HCF, Mr. Gilbreath.Also willyou, thislanguage be agreed upon
from other lenders outside of the lenders or resources that came to our Committee?
MR. APO: We'd love to includewho we can through, you know, though the process. That's
why, ifitgets deferred and we have a littlebitmore time,fantastic.Ifwe need to do it
in a couple of weeks, we'llgather who we can. And again,Ithinkone ofthe rolesthat
Hawaii Community Foundation triesto play isbeing thatconvenor on differentissues
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 99
so whether it'sthe lender community, whether it'sthe developer community, whether
it'sthe non-profitservice community that needs to be involved inthisdiscussion,we'll
work itfrom our resource side to tryand bringthattogether.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Great answer. It'shealthy to have different
perspectives.
Thank you, Mr. Apo. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. So good afternoon, Mr. Apo. Good to
see you again. Of course, Ionly have 30 seconds so I'lltryto be realquick.
Now we have the bonds, the bonds that willhelp pay offthe developers. This is a
formula,thisbillisa formula to help our buyers achieve the FHA loans thatmost people
use their first time homeowners loans from FHA loans. So, that’swhat this billis
addressing the formula forthe buyers. Now inthe budget we, we put inthe money for
the deferred mortgage payment programs. Wouldn't that help get the buyers more
money and address those concerns thatyou guys are talkingabout?
MR. APO: i'llsay yes. Ithinkwe allknow, and it'ssomething you've been leaningand pushing
on. We need every piece ofthispuzzle to make thiswork and so let'smake sure we're
using each puzzle as best we can. And so Ihear you, right? The goal of thisiswas
reallyto get intothose mortgage program elements. So, we need to make sure that
the solutionwe come up with through thisprocess includesthatand whether there'sa
way to adjustto do that,that'swhat we'llbe lookingfor.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: That's my number.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Ifnot,thank you, Todd.
MR. APO: Thank you. Good to see your smilingfaces here. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Have a good trip.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 100
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisNapua Hueu, to be
followed by Cara Flores.
MS. NAPUA HUEU (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha, Chair and County Councilmembers. My name isNapua Hueu and I'mtestifying
in fullsupport of Resolution 22-119. The County of Maui speaks a lotabout food
securityand transitioningaway from our relianceon tourism. This resolutionisone
measure to tangiblyensure that happens.
My father'ssideofthe familyhas been farming kaloforseven generationsinEast Maui.
In 1983 with evident riseintourism, my grandmother startedone ofthe firstfruitstands
up on the Hana Highway. Twelve years later,she sold her portionof the company to
her partner at the time hoping to focus more on our family'starofarming operations.
After years of limitedfarming capabilitieslargelydue to the lack of stream water
resources, but also partiallydue to the lackof manpower. As the lackof stream water
dissolved interestin farming, drivingour generationalfarmers out of the region,and
forcingmost ofthem intoconstructionlaboring.Given these dynamics oflackofstream
water and lack of manpower, my family had no other choice but to returnto tourism
with my grandmother buildinganother fruitstand down on the peninsulawhere itstands
today.
The water diversion construct as is disables East Maui's farming potentialand forces
us to relyon tourism to subsidize our needs. Itshould not be likethismoving forward.
In2014, Imyself had to take a career intourism despitemy preferenceand longingto
be a full-time taro farmer. The water diversion conditions under the current corporate
management structuredoes not allowus to transitionout oftourism.Itisthe County's
duty and the best interestof our civiliansto acquire the water deliverysystem and
ensure thatitismanaged by the people and forthe people.
Resolution 22-119, would harness the place-specificintelligenceof East Maui farmers
as itrelatesto best managing our water resources. Ifeelthe resolutionwas carefully
craftedand intricatelyreflectsthe years and years of testimonyby East Maui farmers
who have the utmost potentialto feed Hawaii nutriousfoods. I appreciatethe
schematics of the resolution that ensures for a diverse representationto avoid the
smaller farmers being leftout of decisionmaking.
As a volunteer coordinator of Honomanu lo'irestorationproject,my cousin, Jesse
Nakaoka and myself are currentlythe only generationalEast Maui tarofarmers growing
food inthe boundaries of Honomanu ahupua'a at thistime. And yet under the current
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 101
water diversion construct, we are not consulted or accurately informed on how much
water isbeing taken, and we are not given the platformto communicate what the day
to day effectsof that water take are on our currectfarming activitiesand futurefarming
capabilities.Honomanu Stream is one of the largestin the East Maui watershed
contributingan astronomical amount of water forthe largerisland'suse.
Isupportthisresolutionthatinreturnforour specificcontributionand sacrificeto serve
the water needs ofmutlipleahupua'a milesaway, would give the smallertarofarmers,
likeourselves a means to inform the County on what exactly isgoing on inthe fieldin
order to maximize our agriculturalpotentialand output.
Please vote in favor of Resolution 22-119, which would substantiate and provide
evidence of your comprehension on the fact that the continued corporate
mismanagement of water compromises alleconomic industrieson this island. No
water,no Upcountry or CentralMaui ag and ranching.No water, no tourism. No water,
no development. We are farbeyond the thresholdof getting a legitimatehandle on
sound water managment to sustainably enable allof our other island's industries.
Please show the people of Maui thatyou support a responsibleresource management
by puttingResolution 22-119 on the ballot.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Seeing none. Thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Cara Flores,to be
followed by Randy Wagner.
MS. CARA FLORES (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61 and Resolution No. 22-119
GDI FD1T
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. FLORES: Awesome. So, Iwanted totestifyon two differentitems, item 22-119, Iam in
support ofthe Maui County Water Authorityand East Maui Regional Community Board
and Iappreciate Councilmember Shane Sinenci forbringingthat.
On the other one. I'dliketo comment on is22-61, and Iwould again liketo emphasize
that Iam inoppositionto developing ina floodzone. Ido think the Council should call
the developer'sbluffand saying they'regoing to develop other housing, ifthey can't
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 102
develop affordablehousing. And Ithinkthatifthe developer does push through and
tryto develop on there there,he isgoing to face the same thingthatwe've seen with
Greg Brown with a lotof community opposition and he's going to potentiallylose credit
inthe community as a developer by developing inan SMA area thatpeople do notwant
to see development happen in.
Itreallyfliesinthe face of science to develop ina floodzone when we know fora fact
that climate change ishappening and the sea levelisrising.And we know thatrising
sea levelmeans thatthe groundwater isalso going to rise.
This is a photo from December 5, the flood that happened justdown the road from
there and we should expect thatwe willhave more floodinglikethis,not less. And in
expectation of that,we should make a conscious effortto not buildinany flood zones,
ifpossible. Because othenwise we're going to end up paying for itlong-term with the
County down the line.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Members? No hands. Thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Randy
Wagner, to be followed by Aram Armstrong.
MS. RANDY WAGNER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha, Councilmembers and staff.Thank you foryour service and forthe opportunity
to testify.My name is Randy Wagner and I do not live,I want to testifyabout the
Waipu'ilaniWorkforce Housing. Ido not liveinthatneighborhood, so Iam not a nimby.
I am the Chair of the Kihei Community Association Design Review Committee and I
have seen this project numerous times. I'm also an architectand a planner so I
understand what I'm lookingat when Isee it.
I think the affordable condominium project proposed is an example of haste makes
waste. Yes, we need affordable homes to be available for purchase by our local
residents. My own daughter and her husband and childcannot affordto buy a home,
even though they both work. Itisdebatable as to how affordablethisprojectreallyis?
Most people seeking affordable housing fallinto income levels below what these
condos willbe offered at. Interestrates are risingmaking loans even harder to get.
These unitscould easilyfallintomarket ratesales as we saw the projectinNorth Kihei
at Kawahine did.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 103
Affordable homes need to be good qualityand must have a healthyand sustainable
environment thatsupports good community development. There must be a long view
in the planning of affordable homes. This projectisvery shortsighted. Itislocated in
an area that isknown to flood regularly,sometimes catastrophicallycausing ruinto our
nearshore waters and damage to existinghomes. These problems willbe exacerbated
by the project.
Two, itis in an area that has no sidewalks, curbs, guttersor drainage infrastructure.
The developer istryingto exempt themselves from supplying these basic needs.
Three, the densityof housing and parking inthissmall sitewillbe very uncomfortable
for unsuspecting new as well as existingresidents. Itwillbe a heat island. Good
community lifewillnot be promoted.
Four, the sitedrainage proposals willnot work and they would be very unaffordableto
try to maintain. Pervious concrete willnot remain pervious due to dust and mud
infiltration.Grass pavers cannot be watered when cars are parked on them. Water
storage tanks beneath the buildingsare not effectiveinfloods.
Itwould be far less damaging to allow the existingR-3 zoning to prevailinthiscase.
The impact on floodingand congestion would likelybe much less. There would be
fewer than halfthe number of parking spaces requiredeven ifthe sitewere to be, able
to be developed to maximum capacity:which itprobably would not be.
Ideallythe siteshould be an example of wetland restroration,where the most good can
be done to recreate balance inthe floodingissues that plague thispartof Kihei. The
County would be wise to consider purchasing thislotor tradingthe owners fora more
appropriate site,where they can develop trulyaffordablehousing that would not be
saddled with these issues.
CHAIR LEE: Can you please conclude your-
MS. WAGNER: Please say no to thisprojectinthislocation.
CHAIR LEE: Can you please conclude your testimony?
MS. WAGNER: Please say yes to well-sited,good qualityaffordablehomes thatofferwell
being and communities thatcan thrive.Thank you very much foryour considerationof
thisvery important matter.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 104
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCiLMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Randy. Just a quick clarificationformy
collegues and the public.When you were talkingabout the projecton Kawahine that,
thatflippedover intothe market, you were talkingabout Kamalani, not the affordable
rentals at the top of the road.
MS. WAGNER: Oh, yeah. Not the affordablerentals.The affordable rentalsare fabulous.
We totallysupport Doug Bigley'svision and his product and his new project that's
coming inthe tech park area above the golfcourse.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MS. WAGNER: ...justan example of good housing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just wanted to make that distinctionbecause people hear
Kawahine and they,they might think-
MS. WAGNER: No, no, no. lt‘sthe A&B one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The Kamalani. Yeah, Kamalani project. Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Chair.
MS. WAGNER: Thank you forthe clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? No hands. Thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisAram Armstrong
to be followed by Christopher Hamman.
MR. ARAM ARMSTRONG (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha. Hi, everybody. . . . Thank you for thissession. Mahalo, Chair for holding it
down. Mahalo, Keani formaking Bluejeans possible and Maui Tomorrow for providing
the link,and also Kim Brown for making thisan important thing for all,likethe video
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 105
thathe made. IthinkNapua already spoke and Junya isgoing to speak so maybe next
time you're out there we can--
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Armstrong? Mr. Armstrong, you'rebreaking up. Perhaps you should turn
offyour video?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Sure, happy to. How isthis? Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Let'strythat.
MR. ARMSTRONG: I'm hearing some weird background noise as well. Like someone
blowing theirnose.
CHAIR LEE: I have no idea what that is.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Someone has a cold. I'm also not so well, I have an ear infection.
Anyways, Ihope everyone feelsbetterout there. Yeah, itsounds likethere'simmense
consensus about the East Maui Water Authorityso I'mwondering how much time we
can spend looking at what happens next? And so this is my testimony for what
happens next.
Itfeelslikethere isboth the opportunityto bringinsome outside expertise because we
don't have, so we have one partythatdoesn't have the kuleana to manage our water
rights.Are there other partiesout there thatwould help us manage the water rights?
And so. I'm looking at folkslikeinthe PacificNorthwest, Seattle area, how thy manage
theirwater systems? Countries likeSouth Africa,who have gone through being like
close to having no water within a hundred days at Capetown. And places likethe
Netherlands, who are justexperts at water management.
And so how do we get to the next levelof the conversation that once we have this
authority,how do we professionalizeitin a way that we can trustthat it'sgoing to get
the job done withinour budgets and allthese things?
And also just as an offerto the folks around this affordable housing in Kihei,I have
done some drone photography for Maui Wetlands, where I took footage of the post
kona low storm and showed a lotof the flood damage, flooding areas inthat area. So
happy to share that as a resource with the Council or whatever committee would like
to have thatfootage to review.
Mahalo for your time everyone. Hope we can make itthrough and hopefullywe can
do thisby voicemail or an app where Ijustsay thumb's up to thisinthe future.Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson has a question, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
Just a clarificationfor me, Mr. Armstrong. I couldn'ttellifyou were for or against the
Waipu'ilaniproject?
MR. ARMSTRONG: I,I,sounds likeit'sin a flood zone. And so, again, Ithinkwhere itgoes,
Ithinkmauka of the highway makes more sense and Icould give you some whole, like
dreamscape around regenerating the area with composting deer carcasses. But Ido
thinkthat is,rehabilitatingthat land and doing small scale regenerative agroforestry
which could also,with, in tandem with dealing with the deer population would be a
smart move. ... Idon'thave a specificanswer foryou.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Chair reallyfast.
IfIcould ask Mr. Armstrong, he said he took picturesand ifIcould connect with him
afterthe meeting justto look at what the Kona low storm was? Ifthat'swhat he did?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Happy to.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Okay. So, how do Iconnect with you?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Easy email isaloha.aram@Qmail.com or Ican email your office.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Could you, please? Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else with questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, let'shave the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Christopher
Hamman, to be followed by Alison Hammond.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 107
MR. CHRISTOPHER HAMMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Thank you so much for having this forum. My name is
Christopher Hamman. I livea few hundred feetfrom this proposed development at
16 East Waipu'ilani. I'm opposed to thisdevelopment. I have some background in
construction,I'vegot 25 years background inconstruction. I'vebeen doing inspections
on the islandforthe lasteleven years. Ido projectdevelopment consulting,and Ialso
do pre-constructionsurveying, and consultingforsome of the largerdevelopers.
And looking at thisproperty they are attempting to develop is,itdoesn't make a whole
lot of sense to me since it'sin a flood zone and it'sgoing to be affecting the
neighborhood so dramatically.The infrastructureis in poor condition as itis,and it
doesn't appear that these developers are going to do anything to improve that. The
constructionofthe projectisgoing to be detrimentalto the existinginfrastructure.Right
now the streets on both sides are a traffic hazard. We tryto bringour grandkids down
to the beach and you have to go through the gravelrightinfrontofthatproposed project
to even make itto the corner.
It‘sflooded so many times that I have a hard time understanding why thisproject is
going forward. And also being exempt from SMA requirements. This is going to
increase the traffic.It'sgoing to reduce the abilityof likeEMS access and even
emergency egress from thispropertyisgoing to be, ifyou can imagine 56 stallscoming
out onto a corner streetallat once in an emergency. It'snot going to work, letalone
how it'sgoing to affectthe .. .affectthe localresidences?
It'sgoing to affectus personally, because we, we have been affected by the flood
waters as everybody has talked about, justthe lastestone on December 5. And that
property isprettymuch going to be underwater. Ialso do water intrusioninspections
and mold inspections.And afterthe firstflood,you know, we're going to be over there
working to tryto resolve the water issues thatthey've got on the property.And so, I
vehemently oppose thisproject,and especiallythe exemptions thatthisdeveloper is
asking for. Itmakes no sense to me. But Iwillput my, ifyou guys got any questions,
you can letme know but then I'llput my wife on.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,maybe you could put your wife on.
MR. HAMMAN: Okay, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 108
MS. ALISON HAMMAN (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi. Thank you foryour time. My name isAlison Hamman and Ijustwant to startout
by saying Iwell opposed. I am a mom on property and a grandma on the property.
And Ihave safetyconcerns forthe traffic,as wellas the conditionofthe road. And I'm
also concerned about any upcoming tsunami or any kind of a weather event. We will
be, currentlywe are overpopulated already on thisroad.
Ifanyone could take a look up-and-down the street,you can already see there'sabout
six cars per each household, which is prettystandard four to six trucks and then a
couple of cars. So, Ithinkthe parking isunrealistic.The trafficisalready congested,
and there'sno sidewalks. So, it'snot a very safe place rightas isto walk. And Iguess
my main concern would be any kind of event, a fire,water, any kind of event,
evacuation would be absolutely,I think,stalled.And I don't know actuallywhat we
would do ifthere was even more people, more cars, more residents.
So, I'm opposed to itand Ithink someone mentioned a land swap and Ithinkthat isa
brilliantidea. So I'minfullsupport ofa land swap. And Ithinkmy laststatement would
be, Iknow thatthe builderisasking fora rezoning,but Ithinkrezoning itdoesn'tchange
the factthatit'sina floodzone. Itdoesn'tchange the realityofthe,what the world,you
know, what the water isgoing to do. And Iguess that'sallIhave to say.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier,Mr. Krueger.
MS. HAMMAN; Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyis David Henkin, to be
followedby Mary Jo Padilla.David Henkin, Isee thatyou're connected to-
MR. DAVID HENKIN [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1;
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. HENKIN; Aloha, Ihope thatyou can hear me. Appreciate your attentionand appreciate
the hard work that the Council has done on Bill21. My name isDavid Henkin, Iwork
with EarthJustice. Iam a registered lobbyist,and I am instrong support of Bill21 on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 109
behalf of our clients,the Center for BiologicalDiversityand Conservation Council for
Hawaii.
One thing Iwant to pointout isthatwhen we learned that a lotof folkswere saying
hey, none of the expert wildlifeagencies have any concerns about blue light,we
submitted supplemental testimony to the County Clerk,itcame inat around 6:30 last
night,but hopefully you received that. And itincludes the, the one of the lettersthat
Jay Penniman referenced the letterfrom the Division of Forestry and Wildlifefrom
February 2002 making itclear that the Divisionof Forestry and Wildlifeurges the
County to ensure thatallof itsstreetlightsand they were commenting on the streetlight
project,are consistent with Bill21, both for the sake of seabirds and for sea turtles.
So, Iencourage you to look at that.
And you know, Iappreciate thatwe now had an opportunityto take a look at the draft
environmental assessment that was discussed by Mr. Hayes. That's been a work in
progress since 2019 and thanks to the chat we now have a linkto that. That document
unlike the work that this Council has done both in committee and in the Council, does
not includethe inputfrom any outside experts,you know, likethe Divisionof Forestry
and Wildlife.It'sbased solelyon Corporation Counsel's analysistogether with one of
theirexpert witnesses from the lawsuitthatthey faced because oftheirfailureto comply
with the Hawaii Environmental PolicyAct. A fellowby the name of Dr. Curren, who is
a physicist,he's not a wildlifeperson.
So you know, when itcomes to the experts,and the peer-review literatureand allof
the testimony thatyou've received,and the CARE Committee received,itisuniversal
in saying thatwe need to address the blue lightissue. We need to do itinthe manner
suggested in Bill21. We need to do itina manner that isconsistentwith what's being
in effect over on Hawaii island for over a decade. So everyone who's raisingconcerns
about safety and whether these lightsare going to be safe enough? Imean there'sno
evidence thatthere'sbeen any problems from the streetlightand other outdoor lighting
that are compliant with the Hawaii island ordinance that'sbeen in effectfor over a
decade. So, we need to rejectthat.
Also, now that you have available to you the draft EA, I urge you to look at pdf
page 256. This iswhere the Divisionof Aquatic Resources, in additionto the Division
of Forestry and Wildlife,back in September of 2019 itcommented on the draft EA.
They said to,they said to the Department of Public Works that allof the streetlights
should be compliant with the Hawaii island standards. So, the Administration has
known about thissince 2019, they'reclaiming that the experts don't have concerns,
that'sabsolutely false. We encourage you to pass thisbill.You've heard substantial
testimony on it.It'stime to do the rightthing.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 110
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thanks again. We have one question.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I know we're not going to get to thisuntil
Monday, but ifMr. Henkin isavailable,could we, ifthere are no objections,ask him to
be a resource ifyou'reavailableon Monday?
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Henkin could you come back on Monday.
MR. HENKIN: Do you know what time. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Well,we're going to starton 9:00,but I'm not sure what time thisitem willbe up.
MR. HENKIN: Okay. I'm happy to make myself available.Yes, Iwill.
Yes, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisMary Jo Padilla,to
be followed by Amir Sheikhan.
CHAIR LEE: And how many testifiersdo we have left?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are 27 testifiersremaining.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. MARY JO PADILLA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61)
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers and everyone present.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 111
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. PADILLA; Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. PADILLA; Okay. My name is Mary Jo Padillaand I'm here to strongly oppose the
Waipu'ilani Workforce Housing Development Project that is slated for 16 East
Waipu'ilaniRoad inKihei. Ilivejustadjacent to the property and I'velivedhere forover
25 years and Ihave been witness to flooding,flooding,and flooding,and more flooding.
That's my main concern. Also, congestion,the safetyof people inthisarea. There's
no sidewalks, frontingSouth Kihei Road where we livejust in frontof this proposed
development, there'sno sidewalks on East Waipu'ilaniRoad or Kauha'a on the south,
to the south of us.
And buildinghere willbe nothing but an addition of headaches, and congestion and
actually,just unsafe. It'sjust an unsafe area forthiskind of development. Itdoesn't
belong here. It belongs somewhere where flooding doesn't occur, where the
infrastructureisin,where the people inthe area want thiskind of a development. It's
zoned single-familyhomes, and there are single-familyhomes here. This kind of a
projectwith 28 units,and additionalpeople and pets,and you know, allof thisdoesn't
work here. Itdoesn'tfithere. Itdoesn't belong here.
And I'm a, Idid hear thatthere isa land swap option. Iam praying thatthe developer
takes a look at this. But what itcomes down to isyou Council people to really,to look
at itand do the rightthing and see that itdoesn't belong here. No more, no more
buildingin flood zones. I mean, we are, we're flooded out already, you know? And
just adding more people here does nothing but add more congestion, more flooding,
etc. So, I,I reallyask you to look at and do the rightthing and do not approve this
development inthisarea. I'mallforaffordablehousing, but not ina floodzone. We've
already built,and built,and builtinSouth Maui which isalla wetland area. So, please,
please do not allow thisprojectto move forward.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? No questions?
MS. PADILLA: Can Iask, can Iask one question or justmake a comment? Iheard--
CHAIR LEE; You know what, I'llletyou make a comment but we, we can'tbe asking questions
at thispoint.
MS. PADILLA: Alright.Well IbelieveIheard, Ithinkitwas Council Gabe Johnson thatsaid
thatSunday was maybe the deadline forthisdecisionto be made?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 112
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. PADILLA: And so ifthe decision isn'tmade today, then isitany understanding that it's
automaticallyapproved?
CHAIR LEE: No. No, itwon't be because we may, we may continue thismeeting on Monday.
MS. PADILLA: But ifthe deadline forapproval or disapproval isSunday.
CHAIR LEE: No, it'sMonday. It'sMonday.
MS. PADILLA: Okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. PADILLA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You're welcome. Mr. Clerk, next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisAmir Sheikhan, to
be followed by Hannah Bernard.
MR. AMIR SHEIKHAN ttestifvinq on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 EDI and Bill No. 21 CD1
FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. SHEIKHAN: So, aloha again, and mahalo forgivingme a voice, and for your time and
dedicationto the people of Maui. I'm not a paid whatever lobbyist,justa residentof
Maui in Lahaina. Personally, my condolences to the former and most Honorable
Councilmember, 1trulyrespect and appreciatethe work you alldo.
So, I'mspeaking on multiplebillsso perhaps a minute or so, as the previous speakers
were permitted. I'llbe brief and apologies for being blunt. Also, I do hope you
appreciate the dedicationof the testifiersto spend theirentireday waiting.
So, essentiallyIfeelthe lightingbillisfullythought out and it'snot a foolishidea and
extreme government overreach that was not thought out essentiallyas far as the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 113
impact to the community. And Hawaii has much bigger environmental problems, like
how our electricityispowered by gasoline generators. My primary concern isthatits
not a huge unintended consequences in public spaces and beaches where
homelessness and crime willeven, willbe even more out of hand, in addition to the
cost to homeowners and the rents that willgo up and willfurtherMaui's problems of
essentiallycatering to addicts and not enforcing public intoxicationand . . . laws that
leads to crime with the lack of lighting.And thiswill,you know, essentiallyfurtherthat,
that problem we're having.
Let'slook at Front Street,for example. It'ssupposed to be one of the great walks of
America. You can look itup, it’slistedand it'sbeautiful.I livevery close,yet,it'slike
skid row and I'm stunned at the states and what's become of itand Ifear the lighting
problem willeven furtherit.
And even the Police Department recommends well-lightinginpublicareas, and not the
low lightingso that passing policecruisercan'tidentifya crime.
And so to also,you know, to,to thinkotherwise would be a glibessentially.And why
there’ssuch a potentialand unsubstantiated impact to these birds. And why it'smore
important than publicsafetyisbafflingto me. And ifthiswas such a big problem, we
would see a more observable impact to birds,as faras, likeWaikiki Beach itjustlights
up at nightand you don'tsee birdsdropping dead. And we have lightsat our house
and you know, they sleep justfineinour trees,Iassure you of that.
And Ithink, Ifeel we should leave itto the DLNR, they’remore powerful and more ina
better position to make decisions on this and we should focus on drugs and
homelessness. And oh my god, I didn'teven consider the other, what someone
mentioned, playingsports at night.And you're saying oh, three-yearexemption ... is
available,which is inevitable.So, you can't sneak wording in likethat. And lastly,I
don't see how Florida'swetlands are comparable to ours.
And the other matters Iwanted to cover, water management. It'shard to believe the
County would want to give that up to anyone else. But regarding affordablehousing,
you know, there are much bigger problems there to solve.
So. I appreciate the time you've given me, and oh, one lastthing,just FYI, flood
insurance in Kihei is $5,000, which is insane. But, so, anyway, thank you forgiving,
oh, one lastthing,another testifierbrought up that you don'thave enough firestations
and you've outsourced your ALS to AMR. That means you've, you don't have
paramedics in your Fire Departments. You don't have anyone that can administer
drugs thatcan do anything beyond that.An EMT can only giveyou oxygen or perhaps
a defibrillator.So, you have no advanced lifesupport. That'swhat ALS is.That'swhat
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 114
he meant. Isthat you don't have enough firestationsor your own FireDepartment is
doesn't have paramedics. So, I’msorryto rantand be so harsh,but it'sjustvery hard
to--
CHAIR LEE; Thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Let'scheck ifyou have
any questions. Members, are there any questions?
No questions. Thank you again.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Hannah Bernard, to be
followed by Sean Lester.
MS. HANNAH BERNARD [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha kakou. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and esteemed
Counciimembers. An incrediblebody of work you have for yourselves today. I am
testifyingas the Directorof Hawaii WildlifeFund in favor of Bill21, CD1. One of the
most wellthought out,robustlythought out,and compromised billsthatwe have before
us ina long time.
Iwas on the originaloutdoor lightingcommittee that Mike Molina chaired and he did a
greatjob of compromising with allthe various stakeholder groups includingour Police
Department to craft a billto reduce the impact of outdoor lightpollutionon our
environment. And itdid not go far enough. We were very compromised as the
conservation environmental community, and sadly DLNR, even Fish and Wildlife
Service cannot help us inthatsituation.
What we can do iskeep working to make our laws better.Ipersonallyhave picked up
downed seabirds myself righton Dairy Road. This isnot something thatisfabricated.
Itisnot something thatthe biologistshave made up. This isreal.The downed seabirds
is,isa shame. It'ssomething that thisCounty, that our islandshould be ashamed of.
That our protected native and endangered species are dying because of lights?That's
ridiculous.
To think that there'sany place for people to . . .testimony today thatitsendangering
human lifewhen this billhas been crafted with, with so much inputfrom allof the
resource personnel,the scientificcommunity, other PoliceDepartment. The Big Island
has been doing thisfora decade. There isno excuse forus to continueto delay the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 115
protectionfor our native wildlife.This is inexcusable. We did itforten years. We've
been waitingten years fora betterbill.
This iscompletely time. It'sthe righttime. Isupport and encourage you to accept this
bill,and not letitbe tweaked and changed to not reflecttrue science for what really
impacts these species and others and even humans. So, Ijustwant to thank you once
again forallthe great work you've done and continue to do and, and thisbill.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Sean Lester, to be
followed by Jerome Kekiwi Jr.
MR. SEAN LESTER (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-61, 22-62, 22-63. 22-64. &
22-67 and Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FD1. 22-144 CD1 FD1 .& 22-165):
Aloha kakou. Chair,can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. LESTER: Hello. Okay. Firstof ail,1hope you'refeelingbetter.My gosh, you sound like
you have a reallyterriblecold,I'msorryforsix,or seven hours ofthis.Iwanted to start
offby justsaying firstof allthank you allfor being here. I'mnot here to preach at you
at all. I'm justhere to basicallysay what's reallyimportantin thistime of allof this
emotion and whatever is qualitativeanalysis. All you folkshave that abilityand 1
appreciate that and I hold that to the highest standard as an engineer, that'swhat's
important. Emotions important,but what you're going to do isa qualitativeanalysisof
what's here infrontof you. So, thank you for,fordoing that.
And I'mgoing to startoff,1have multipleshere, but I'mgoing to make them 30 seconds
each ifIcan, please. 22-165, proposing an amendment to the Revised Charter of the
County of Maui, as amended relatingto promoting climate change adaptation. The
majorityof what we're talkingabout here isabout climatechange adaptation.What's
happening with the seabird,what's happening with the water,what's happening with
the land that,thatcorporationshave, whether we have inour backyard. The flooding
that happens in the zones where we may be puttingaffordablehousing. This is
absolutely imperative that we allow climate change adaptationto be an overlayfor
every singlethingthatthe Council, as well as the Mayor works on. That'sthe firstthing
Iwanted to say.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 116
The second thingison 22-62, affordablehousing. Ireallybelieveit'simportantforus
to look at the true cost. When people go back in and tryto get a loan, it'sa real
challenge, and Ithinkthat Councilmember Johnson has done a reallygreatjob with
thisand working withit.The thingwe have to understand iswhen you startlookinglike
thisaffordable22-61, wrong place, wrong time, one of the thingsthatwe have isthe
fact that we don't have in perpetuityaffordable housing. So we end up chasing
affordablehousing. The question,which needs to be quantitativelyanalyzed ishow do
we have 30-year affordablehousing? And there are experts out there thatcan really
help us with that. So, I'm against 22-61. Ithinkthere'sa betterway of doing it.
Excuse me while I thumb through here. The amendment on 22-63 to increase the
homeowners' exemptions from $300 to $400 thousand. Yes, absolutely.We have to
startlooking at the fact that it'svery important to take care of the people. When
someone comes and buys a 10, or 20, or 30, or $40 millionhouse here, they are
tourists. What we need to do is take care of locals that are here for long periods of
time and that allows us to do that. Homeowner exemptions, you have to livehere
270 days out ofthe year. That means you gotta,you gottaactuallylivehere toget this.
So, I'm for that.
And also,22-64, which issomething dear to my heart,the 50 percent minimum realtax
forseverely disabledveterans. Iwant to thank Councilmember Molina forbringingthis
forward. I brought thisto both him and Councilmember Johnson and Iwant to give
Councilmember Johnson as well realkudos forworking and talkingwith me about this
and, and Ido appreciate his work with thisas well.
One of the things thatwas brought up isregarding disabilityand the percentages and
justto letthe Council know, when the VA hits30 percent disability,that'swhen they
startedgoing with class one as far as taking care of the people'smedical. So, that's
considered serious disabilitywhen you reach 30 percent. By the time you get to
50 percent, it'sconsidered very serious disability.We hit70 percent,because after
going back and forthdidn'twant to make itwhere itwas lookingas ifwe were just
reaching forthe starshere. But 70 percent it’smultipledisabilities.It'svery severe.
But even at 50 percent,we're talking,ifyou have never gone through a disabilitywith
the VA, and the multi-yearsthat ittakes to get it,it'sextraordinary.These are,these
are people thathave paid a lotof dues. Whatever you'd liketo do, I'mtotallygrateful
forthe 70 to 100. Ifyou decide to bringitback down to 50,that'sup tothe Council. It
would reach a lotmore people, but I'mjustreallygratefulforwhat you'vedone. Thank
you so much. And I'm willingto be a, an, you know a person here ifyou need more,
likeon Monday or whatever? I'm more than happy to show up again forthis,ifyou like
me to be.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 117
As far as 22-67, which was authorizing proceedings of eminent domain on that
property, absolutely not. This man is being paid millionsof dollarsfor being an
explicativethat I'm not going to use here. We need to go back inand have full-onjust
likethe January 6, on thisguy. We need to have people brought in,staffbrought in,a
whole series of things done. And not justgive thisman a pass. And Ithinkthisis
something thatwould be reallygood inthe GREAT Committee to be able to take care
of. 1thinkthisisrightup. I'mjustsaying forwhatever Ithinkthatwould be a reallygreat
place to have it.
Excuse me one second, while 1 move on. 22-140 [sic],CD1, EDI amendment for
planning commissions and dissolve the Maui Planning Commission. 1 believethisis
reallya good thing. We need to startmoving more likeOahu has, where we have
community boards. And 1thinkthisisa way for us to be able to do that,we're moving
out of the 1950's, '60s,and '70s. This isup to you again, to see ifquantitativelywe're
ready foritand Ideferto the Council forthat.
And excuse me, one second. You folks have so much on the thing here. As faras the
establishment of boards for the Water and East Maui Regional Community Board. This
issuch a complex issue. The one thingthat Iwould ask isthatthisbody make sure
that there is balance. That it'snot about fear, and misguided anger, but instead,once
again it'sa qualitativeanalysis,so that the entire,our entirecommunity over a long
period of time,several generations out actuallybenefitsfrom, from what we do.
Thank you so much foryour time. Very much appreciate you and much energy to you.
Good luck. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? ifnot,thanks again.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyisJerome Kekiwi,Jr.to be
followed by Regina Padilla.
MR. JEROME KEKIWI. JR. (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Hello. You guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 118
MR. KEKIWI: Video not working. Ah, shucks, my video not working. Sorry.
Mahalo, Chair and Councilmembers. Thank you very much. Firstand foremost,
mahalo Ke Akua. Thank you forthisbeautifulday and every singleday you give us
hereon this‘aina.My name isJerome Kekiwi,Jr.,I'mthe presidentof Na Moku Aupuni
‘o Ko'olau Hui. Our members are the lineal descendants and current residents of
Keanae, Wailuanui, in East Maui. We grow taro,fish,hunt, and gather forour families
as a way of life.We are the lead plantiffsinthe East Maui water case includingthe
2018 decision that restored East Maui streams.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto share my mana'o on the resolutionto establishan East
Maui Regional Community Board. We are infullsupport. Na Moku played a key role
in restorationof East Maui waters and our stewarding activitiescontinue. We are
working hard to restoreapproximately 300 acres of lo'iinKeanae and Wailuanui. We
have the expertise and indepth knowledge that can properlymanage the watershed
and efficientlyrestorethe ecosystems. We have the most hands on experience and
generational knowledge of anyone involved inthe needed and properly manage the
watershed.
For many decades our community suffered great injuryacknowledged in both court
and commissional water resource management decisions. Hawaii's public trust
resources should be controlledby Hawaii. Itisdangerous to surrender thisobligation
to a foreignfor-profitcorporation.They willmanage itintheirown best interests,and
not the interestsof the County, nor the publictrust.A for-profitinvestment entityis
responsibleto shareholders to make a profit.
We have no quarrel with company operators on the ground and our community
currentlyhas a good relationshipwith representativefrom the company, butthere isno
guarantee that successors willbe as conscientious. We want, what we want is
community partnership,management, and stewardship. It'sbeen four years since
streams were restored in our moku and we have done everything withinour power and
means to be good stewards. This isnot a business propositionforus,but one ofsacred
kuleana.
Our community's mission isto be good stewards of the land and itsresources. We
would like to have a stronger and more cooperative relationshipwith all the
stakeholders,to work together to take good care of the land and water. In the past,
effortslikethishave been blocked. We remain open to working with allstakeholders.
Mahalo. Thank you forlettingme testify.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 119
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Mr. Kekiwi. Members, any questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Kekiwi Aweau forbeing here.
You know you mentioned inyour testimony thatyou'rewanting to open up, Ithinkyou
mentioned 300 more acres of kalo land?
MR. KEKIWI: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Did you, so, are you gettingenough water from the streams to
be able to take care of those extra 300 acres?
MR. KEKIWI: Weil, rightnow we're gettingadequate water, but as the farmers,you know, we
got to make sure that the riversisopen and clean so we can take thatwater in,right?
So, yeah, as fornow, rightnow, we stay gettingadequate water.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. KEKIWI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any otherquestions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the
next testifier,Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Regina Padilla,to be
followed by Mike Moran.
MS. REGINA PADILU\ (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. PADILLA: Iam Regina Padilla.Thank you so much foryour time,forlettingme speak.
Iam speaking on the behalf of the 16 East Waipu'ilaniHale affordablehousing,and I
do not consent to the buildingof thisproject. I liveadjacent to the property thatthey
want to develop. And I'velivedhere since Iwas eightyears old. I'm32, going of 33
and countless times over my lifeI have seen the roads flooded ... for emergency
vehicles to get through.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 120
And 1just,Ihave a deep concern forthe safetyofthe community, as wellas the safety
of the land, and the development that isoverbearing in my opinion. ... Iwant to state
thatIam foraffordablehousing, especiallyaffordablehousing that'sactuallyaffordable
to the localcommunity, the many hardworking men and women of Kihei.
Ido not believethatthisprojectisgoing to solve the housing problems fora lotof the
localssince about 50 percent or more could be sold to new mainland transplants.And
there's no active outline on how to control that,or make sure that,thatdoes not happen.
I do not consent to poor planning, buildingunder poor planning. Especiallyon the
developers, whose primary interestisfinancialgain,not the benefitsto the community
and unforeseen or foreseen complications that could take place from poor planning.
And yeah, so, in my opinion thisisa very poor place to allow thisprojectto be built,
and there'sso many other ways, other places that would be much betterfor this
development to take place,other than East Waipu'ilani,16 East Waipu'ilani.Iplead
the beloved publicservants thatyou may not proceed and consider relocationof this
project,and perhaps, a less intrusiveprojectfor 16 East Waipu'ilani,likejustleaving
the land free,a community garden, a work .. .there'sso many more optionsthatare
less intrusiveto the surrounding residents,and more, more conducive to the area.
And justthe drainage issues thatwe have. The roads have been countlesslyflooded
beyond controlmultipletimes from small storms and so thisdevelopment isgoing to
justoverbear on what's already hard to handle. Emergency vehicles already have a
hard time gettingthrough so thisisjustgoing to furtherimpede on the safetyof the
community Ifeel.And so I,Ireallywholeheartedly believethatthisprojectshould not
be allowed to move forward and please, please, reconsider a lessintrusiveprojectto
take place ifany has to at all.That being said,thank you so much foryour time. 1
appreciate the opportunityto speak. Thank you guys all.Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions?
We have one from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Padilla.Ifthe lessintrusive
projectisnot affordablewith no requirement thatany localpeople live,you stillprefer
it?
MS. PADILLA: If,inmy opinion,ifsomething, ifsomething has tobe done inthislocation,not
20-footbuildingsthatare intrusivewith 56 parking lots.And yeah, more likea workout
park,a dog park,a community park,a similarlayoutto what isalreadysurroundingthe
land. We only have, what, for four properties. And so, something less intrusive,
something more conducive to the localcommunity, more supportive,thatwillactually
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 121
allow them to, locals, residents of Maui, who have been here theirwhole lifefor
generations to move in safely forthe community and themselves and everyone. So,
yes, less intrusive.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
MS. PADILLA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you very much and may we have the next
testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Mike Moran, to be
followed by Don Gerry.
MR. MIKE MORAN Ftestifyinq on Committee Report Nos. 22-61 & 22-62: Resolution
Nos. 22-119 CD1 FDl 22-144 GDI FD1. 22-165. & 22-173: and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1
(2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
Association. Another long,gruelingCouncil meeting and certainlyexpress our thanks
to you for delving intoallof these issues. We have seven items to comment on, but
most of them you've heard before and we'lltryto ripthrough them very quickly.
Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
The firstone is the 22-61, the Waipu'ilani project. Just likeallof you, we're very
reluctantto say no to a whether it'saffordable,or attainable,or workforce housing
project. But this one, it'sjust goes back to what the realtorssay those three most
important words; location,location,location,and thisisjustinthe wrong location.
We were challenged thatwe are against affordablehousing and itmade me look back.
Iwent back 15 years to see ifthere were any projectsthatwe spoke againstthatcould
be mixed in with that, even the ones that have a mix of affordable and market rate.
And the only one thatwas, justhappened to be mentioned a littlebitearliertoday was
Kamalani, thatwe spoke againstthatfora differentreason. But we saw that,thatwas
going to be a problem, we feltitwas going to be a problem and most folksnow agree
thatitwas approved by a differentCouncil thatthose problems came true.That itdidn't
go, the homes didn'tgo to the community.
Here it'sthisdifferentissue, but again, we have to say no, we can'tsupport thisone.
It'sjustinthiswrong locationand itsalmost punishing to say we'llgivethistothe people
who are poor, and so what they going to be subjected to floods. So, we speak against
thisproject.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 122
I'm moving on to 22-62. We thinkthat thistiesrightin with yes, let'smake sure we
know what the realcost isgoing to be so thatpeople desperate fora home don'tget
duped into making a commitment that they can't,can't cover, because they didn't
realizeflood insurance . . .other expenses so . ..thisisbeing considered thatyou're
looking to findthe true cost.
Third isjustthe resolutionon the appointments to the South Maui Planning Advisory
Committee. We just commend you, we saw allthe work you did yesterday in,in the
committee hearing and I certainlyappreciate the voices of assurance from you for
myself personally.We see justwhat you'retryingto do. Trying to findthatbalance so
we do get a good CPAC.
Moving on to 119, the amendment to the Revised Charter forthe Maui Nui Community
Water Systems. Of course, we're insupport of this.We don'thave the abilityto speak
likeso many of the kanaka do on it,but justas people tryingto be good citizens,and
speaking forthe people. Yes, this,thisisnot the right,thisisthe rightway to go. The
Allianceof Community Associations met representativesfrom Mahi Pono when they
firstcame, and a group of,a varietyof community association members asked hard
questions and even then,we got dubious answers which made them suspect. And as
it'scoming out itsure looks likeit'sjustan, it'sjust an effortto pick out water rights.
Yes, we see some plantinggoing on, but we also see a lotoffugitivedust atthe same
time. So, we are infullsupport of this.
Next is 22-144, the Planning Commissions for the, the additions,for the individual
areas, we stand completely insupport ofthis.Again, we spoke on thisnumerous times,
many other folksdid,and we hope we can get thison the ballotand, and give the public
a chance to say up or down on it.
Yes, anything that we're gettingthe realizationthatWhere am I,okay, 22-165.
everybody isnow aware ofwhat climatechange can do sea levelriseand so forth,so
we are in support of that.
And lastis21 the billforthe lightingforthe birds. You know, you've researched thisto
death. You've had experts come inand now we see people coming inthatsome didn't
even read the bill,the originalbill.Once we seen the revisions,and some had say they
did,you can listento the testimony,and say well ifyou read it,you didn'tcomprehend
it.And we agree with many ofthe priortestimony. It'stime forthis.
It'snot just a bunch of birds,some oh, I got birds in my backyard, so thisisn'tthe
problem. We know these are people who are not paying attentionto thisissue. These
are endangered species seabirds, and itis time to stand up for them and echo
Councilmember Paltin'swords that we as human species are not separate; we are part
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 123
of this,and we we're one of these species and let'ssupport thisother species that's
endangered. Thank you for the opportunity to ramble on on allof those matters.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you so much, Mike. Always good
to see you.
MR. MORAN: Hope itwraps up prettyquick.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyisDon Gerry,to be followed
by Lahela Aiwohi.
MR. DON GERRY (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Hi, I'm Don Gerry, 41 years, I'm now retiredas a general contractoron the islandof
Maui. I've,nothing can be said rightnow that hasn't been said over 50, 55 times
already thisafternoon. Ithank you for,forlisteningto allof these individualsand so
much of ithas been repeated. So I'mgoing to be a littlemore directinmy thoughts.
I can't believe that this is stillan issue to build a multi-family,high-densitycomplex ina
neighborhood thatwasn't originallyzoned forthis. But let'sgo ahead and change the
zoning. Ithinkthatitshould be kept the way itis.A single-family,allowed to be built
there,justas the way the,the families,thatAlexanders has shared earlier.That'sthe
way they wanted the land to be.
There's been offersto move thisprojectto another partofthe community. Ithinkit'sa
great idea. We should pursue this,buildit,but justsomewhere else thatwiltsimplify
the traffic,the flooding,and the floodinsurance. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any question? Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwanted, Ijustnoticedthatthey put inthe,on the log22-62
Ithinkit's22-61. Okay, they justfixedit.
You were talking,Mr. Gerry, you were talkingabout the Waipu'ilaniproject?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 124
MR. GERRY; Iwas, and Inoticedthatmy littlebox wasn't filledinafterthat,but I'm lucky.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: They got itrightnow. Thank you.
MR. GERRY: I'm luckyto get unmuted, letalone fillinthe box. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Okay. Thank you forcoming. And now we have the next testifier
coming.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Lahela Aiwohi, to be
followed by Sam Small.
MS. LAHELA AIWOHI [testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FD1 & 22-144 CD1 FD1:
and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. I know it'sbeen a long day foryou guys, forallof
you and mahalo forthe time thatyou guys put inand commit, commitment inlistening
to allof this. And again, I know that,you know, whether it'sbeing opposed or
supported,thatyou guys have heard quitea bittoday.
! am here, Iam a registeredlobbyistwith the Hawaii HotelAllianceand Iam here to
testifyinoppositionof Bill21. Although the hotelsupportsthe effortsofassuringsafety
for the Hawaiian seabirds, we also have the responsibilityto provide safety for our
guests using the hotels. And be itthe beach walks aftera dinner,or walking to their
car from the hotelto the parking using the litwalkways or pathways along the road is
basicallyour responsibilityto make sure our hotelguests,whether itbe localsagain or
visitors,that,thatwe do provide adequate lightingforour guests. Inorder to change
this,thiswould take a quitean amount of financialburden on the,on the businesses,
but Ithinkour number one concern ismore of the safety on the, on our guests.
Ifthere was a way thatwe could have any discussion,we would greatlyappreciateit
on how we could assistin,you know, creatinga billthatCouncilmember King islooking
for. And we admire the intent,again, you know, we, we know the importance of
supportingthe safetyof the Hawaiian seabirds,but we do oppose the billand again,
we would be willingtositdown and talkto see ifthere'sanythingthatwe can do tohelp
infindinga solutionwith that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 125
Resolution 22-144 in dissolvingthe planning commission, we're here to, I'm here to
oppose that. I'mjustnot sure what the whole purpose of.isof it.Itcreates,you know,
you're going to create eight more planning commissions basicallyor establish eight
other community plan based on the planning commissions, each with nine or seven
members, and that kinda just creates more layers of government or more layers,a
longer process for anybody to come in frontof. So, justto get things through, you
know, itmay create just more, likeI said, a lengthierprocess. So, I'm just not sure
what exact the purpose or the intentisof,of dissolvingthe Maui Planning Commission.
Ibelievethe planning commissions inthe past and present they have done a greatjob.
Ithink they do good research in priorto hearing what's being heard in frontof them.
They ask the rightquestions,so and again,you know, theirvolunteeringtheirtime and
we allknow planning commissions are,isvery,very lengthy meetings. So, 1would like
to see the Maui Planning Commission being maintained as justone.
And the last,the lastone I'm here to ask for a deference or you know, to ask to see if
there isanything thatwe can hold offfrom puttingiton the ballot,isthe Water Authority
Resolution 22-119. Councilmember Sinenci again, I understand where he's coming
from on this,and especiallywith the EMI. Looking at EMI and East Maui and listening
to his constituents on that.
1,we justhave a few questions on what the cost would be; what, how itwould be set
up; and how. what would the increase on the RPT be? You know, where would this
funding be coming from? Would it,willwe see an increase on our ratepayers? You
know, on the ratepayer taxes? Ibelievethatthat'swhere we would see some funding
going to in order to sustain the self-fundedprogram. And so, those are the kind of
questions that we do have. But, you know, and ifthere'ssomething thatwe could,if
there'sanything that could be done, you know to just hold offfora littlebituntilthose
questions are asked.
Ithinkthere issome confusion on the responsibilityand dutiesbetween now you would
have a Water Authority ifitwas to get passed, you'd have a Water Authority. You
would also have Department of Water Supply, Board of Water Supply, CWRM and I
thinktherejustbecomes a lotof,a lotof confusion on who's responsibleforwhat when
that happens. Ithinklike,again 1admire Councilmember Sinenci in lookingafterhis
constituentsand what they want and we do understand the issues with water.
And 1,we allunderstand the issues with water, but again, 1believethatifwe can get,
you know, some answers as to how thatwould be done especiallyforratepayers. You
know, what would be the,what would be the impact on, forour ratepayers? And ifwe
can get a more solidifiedanswers, Ithinkthatwould be great.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 126
So. mahalo foryour time. I appreciate allthatyou guys do. I know you guys work
hard. So, thank you again.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you, Laheia.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyisSam Small,to be followed
by Vicky Corbett.
Sam Small? We see thatyou're connected to the meeting, but you are muted on your
end, we cannot unmute you. Chair,shallwe move on to the next testifierforthe time
being?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Then the next testifierisVicky Corbett inthe chamber.
MS. VICKY CORBETT ftestifvinqon County Communication No. 22-167: Committee Report
No. 22-61: Resolution No. 22-119 GDI FD1: and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
When Icame here today, Icame prettymuch justto testifyabout the Maui County, the
water situation.
CHAIR LEE: Can you bringthe microphone closerto you?
MS. CORBETT; You can'thear me? Oh, Ithought Iwas. I'm normallytoo loud. But being in
the chamber allday, I've,okay, 1have listenedto a lotof differenttestimonies. And a
couple of thingsthatreally,thislastone thatthey were talkingabout isbuildingon this
floodzone, the government wanting to buildlow-income housing. It'sneeded, it'sa gift
to the people thatare poor, and so Ithinkit'sa wonderful thing.
But I'm an old lady and in my lifeI'veseen when a lotof times when your intentionis
good, but it'slikeit'sgoing to cost money. So they, let'sbuildthishousing project,you
know, there'ssome land over by the railroadstation,and the trainline,it'skinda noisy
but the land ischeap. We can buildthe low-income housing over there.
Or likeinthe case of my kid'sschool where they grew up, they builta school,again a
government projectforthe people. We want to do what's right.Well,you know there's
an old garbage dump it'skinda been leveled,let'sbuildthe school there. Well,when
my kids went to that school there were smokestacks allover the playground where
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 127
flames came out because of the methane gas from the years of the trash being. So
it'slikeitscheap land,you're doing a good thing.
And that'swhat made me thinkof thisbuildingon thisfloodzone. Imean, it'scheap
land so I can see the incentive to want to build on it.But isita loving,kind thing to,to
have, buildpeople's homes in an area thatwhen itfloods,it'snot going to be good for
the healthof the kids. It'sgoing to undermine the constructionitself.And also Iheard
someone say thattheirinsurance forfloodzone area, and I'veknown people thathave
been in itthey said it’shigh, it's4,000 a year. Okay, the average, you know,
homeowner's insurance for about a $400,000 home, which these Ithink would be less
than that isabout $75.00 a month. Well these low-income people, let'sthrow an extra
300 bucks on theirmonthly rent,theirmonthly housing expense. So, to me, I don't
know a lotabout this,doesn't sound good.
Okay, my next thing isthe lights.Itsounds good. Let'ssave the birds. But again, I
heard testimony,there'snot a lotof dead birdslayingaround. Their habitatisn'tinthe
middle of the city. And the other thing isthe cost. Not only the cost to the State of
millionsof dollars,when we're coming out of COVID, a pandemic, a crisis,we have so
many of our localbusinesses that have gone bankrupt. People need to startback up.
Imean, there'sso many thingsthatmillionsof dollarscould be spent on to benefitthe
people rightnow. Idon'tunderstand thislightingissue.
Then I heard people say, but on the Big Island,they've had itforyears. Of course,
they have. Is itto save birds? No, it'sbecause of the telescope. There's a kind of a
legitimatereason why they need to dim the lights.Idon'tsee a legitimatereason for
dimming the lightson Maui other than money. Somebody isgoing to make a heck of
a lotof money and again, inflation.Does thismean thateverybody isgoing to have to,
you know, get new lighting?When Christmas comes, those lightsaren'tgood enough.
Idon'tknow. That'sjustmy opinion.I'm sorry,but so Iwould not be insupport ofthat
and Iknow you guys have a lotto consider and that'syour consideration.
Now, to my main concern why I’m here in regards to Resolution22-167 and 22-119.
My sistermarried a Hawaiian. Her childrenare a thirdHawaiian and for45 years I
have heard from her about the island of Hawaii and how you know, the other people,
us white folkseven though she's a white girl,have exploitedthe land,the people,and
the water. Especially,the water.
And I believe in restorativefarming and organic farming, and you know farming with
respect to the earth because that'swhat gives you life.You're good to the earth,it
gives you food, itgives you life.So, Ibelieveinhonoring the land and farming.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 128
So, when Pono firstcame to the island and Monsanto stopped farming the sugarcane,
people were happy. People that I'vetalkedto inthe past couple ofweeks they go, oh
well at least it'snot Monsanto and they had a wonderful name, Pono. What a great
name? I'vecome to say they don'tdeserve thatname. We didn'tlikehow Monsanto
farmed. What itdid to the air? What itdid our water? What itdid to the land?
But what Pono, which isreallyPSP Investments, as you already know, the Canadian,
it'sa pension fund thatthey'reinthe business formaking money. They're loyalto their
investors.They boast of an over 10 percent returnon theirmoney. Who's givingthem
that money? The people of Maui and the restof the world. So, concerns of mine is
thatifwe give them the water,we're going to allowthem togrow even more crops. And
how are they growing theircrops?
I liveUpcountry, when Idrivedown, we see the dead fields.We knew thatMonsanto
used Roundup, right,Ican'tpronounce it,very toxic,very deadly and itkilledthe weeds.
Well, Mahi Pono boasted thatwe are gettingaway from Round-up. We're not going to
use itanymore. So you think,ah, that'sgood, that'sgreat. Weil,what do they use?
They use a chemical calledparaquat. That isRound-up on steroids.And so,you drive
down country,and not only are the weeds dead, and the grass isdead, the trees are
dying. It'sa very,very toxicchemical. So, are they really,you know, growing forthe
benefitofthe Hawaiian people? Ithinknot.
So, what was the other? Yeah, I,I,a lotof people have talked,I,Icould reiteratea lot
of thingsabout what they'vedone throughout the world,but Iwant tojustconclude with
thislittlecomment. Okay, so inthe past two weeks, Ijustfound out about thiswhole
situationwithinthe past two weeks. I have been following,I have known that Mahi
Pono has wanted toget a water lease long-term,but Idid not know, what Idid not know
is that while they'regettingit,and I'm concerned thatthey'regoing to get,thatthe
people of Maui had an opportunityto get the water lease. And it's,it'sjustdisheartening
that,thatour Mayor and many publicofficialsknew in2019, thatyeah, inMay, thatthis
opportunityforthe people to get back the water was theirs.And they weren'thonored.
Nobody was told about itprettymuch. We heard a lotinthe paper about Pono was
applying,but nothing thatoh, by the way, you know, the County ofMaui can alsoapply.
So, what my lastwords to you isIthank you very much as a Council. I'venever done
anything politicalin my life.It'svery nervous, but Iwant tosay thatwhen you were all
selected as Councilmembers the people of Maui gave you a vote of confidence. They
put theirtrustin you and they were confidentthatyou would do the rightthing.And
what I'msaying isrightnow, you as a Council should vote a voiceofconfidenceinthe
people of Maui. They have spoken thatthey want thisto pass,so Ijustpleadwithyou
to vote in a vote of confidence for them.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 129
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Can you stateyour name forthe record,please?
MS. CORBETT: Vicky Corbett.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. CORBETT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Members, are you ready foryour afternoon break? Ten minutes. Okay, ten minutes
would be 4:42. Okay, 4:42. This meeting isinrecess until4:42.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 4:32 P.M.,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 4:46 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: This ismy new gavel,the pencilsharpener. Willthe July 15 Council meeting
please reconvene? Members, we have a testifierwaiting.
Mr. Small. Welcome and please proceed.
MR. SAM SMALL ftestifyinq on County Communication No. 22-169: and BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1
(2022)1:
Thank you, Chair Lee. Ihope you'refeelingbetterthan your throatissounding.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks.
MR. SMALL: Alright,so on thislightbill,you know, Councilmember Sugimura lamented that
the same people testifyover and over again and they thinkthatwe're allcorrupt.Well,
no, Idon'tthinkthatyou are allcorrupt. Iknow some are corrupt.A few Directorsand
Corporation Counsel, given, and given Corporation Counsel's positionof control,
almost everything that goes on here, that'sa real problem. And, and No. 21 is an
example of that.
Corporation Counsel, correct me ifI'm wrong, Corporation Counsel was instructed
specificallyto make comments on, on, on efficacy,on legitimacy,on language,force
and effectof law. Not on the policy itself.And they were told not to rewritethe
legislation.Specificallyinstructedby thisbody, who, you'retheirclient.They work for
you. But they didn'thonor your requests. They rewrote it.They stepped outsidetheir
authority,and inappropriatelyattempted to influencethisCouncil.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 130
This testifier,Jim Hayes, brought in by Corporation Counsel, you know, he did the
same thing with the telescope. He falsifiedthe, the testimony of other people in a
report.He removed language where they,they,they advised against the construction.
But because Parsons Brinckerhoff,big engineering firm wanted the contract,they
manipulated the process and you'rebeing manipulated here. You need to standup for
what the people want. It'sclearthat,that,that,you know, thatthese things need to
take place.
Jim [sic]Henkin from Earth Justicespoke eloquently,everything that he said is right.
And please,thank you forbringinghim inas, as, as expert testimony. And we need to
weed through the places where obvious bias and, and corruption exists. And hey,
that'sCorp. Counsel.
Switching over tothe auditor.Wow, again. Talk about corruption. I'msorry,the three-
lotor less deferralagreements, I spoke to the InfrastructureCommittee in 2018 and
identifiedfraud and corruptionin,with regard to SMA permits and with regard to the
three-lotor less deferralagreements. And Councilmember Sugimura took issue with
my characterizationof fraud. Well, that same fraud isnow being investigatedat Greg
Brown's. It'sthe same process. So, Iwasn't wrong. I'm here repeatedly over and over
again illuminatingcorruption and Councilmember Sugimura just ignores it. You got
infrastructure.
The Auditor on the three-lotdeferralagreements, that auditwas never necessary. It's
not necessary now. The auditexistsbecause myself, and a few others pressured Don,
Councilmember Guzman, and Elle Cochran to deal with item 32, to deal with the
deferralagreements. And the only thing thatthey were willingto do was to kickthe
can down the road to the Auditor.
You have proposals fora third-partyconsultants,who do thisprofessionally.They can
in a heartbeat. Chris Salem has already negotiated,when he was working for the
Mayor, he negotiated a contractwith a company to provide thisservice,to go through
and category,catalog the thousands of deferralagreements. Thousands of them and
construct a method of an equitable method of collectionon the ones that can be
collected on.
This Council can rectifythat and collecton millionsof dollarsof infrastructurethat is
due to thisCounty. This Council could do itina week. Itcould be establishedand put
together and the issue could be put to bed. The Auditor is lyingto you. He's using
Chris Salem's wrongful termination suitagainst the Mayor as an excuse forkillinghis
audit of the three-lotdeferralagreements. There's thousands of those agreements.
How is itthat one whistle-blower who is whistle-blower for. ..Upcountry water bill,oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 131
on these deferralagreements. We know about the deferralagreements because of
Chris Salem. And how isitthat one case isblocking the Auditor? The reason why is
that the auditwillreveal corruptionand the Auditor under pressure from Corporation
Counsel isignoringthat corruptionand thisneeds to stop.
Item 32, infrastructure,itcan be dealtwith,you don't need the audit. The Council can
take itsauthorityand, and resolvethe situationimmediately. It'seasy. The problem is
the resistancebecause ofthe corruption.Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE; Sorry,thereare no questions,Sam. Thank you. Thank you foryour testimony.
MR. SMALL: Thank you all.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Mr. Clerk,we're going to try and settlesomething here. There's a
request to,we have about approximately 17 people leftto testify.And there was a
request to consider going to 9:00 tonight.So, possiblytaking some of the,the harder
items?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, Ithink that's an excellent idea, because otherwise, this
testimony willgo on and on and on and on. Because of the new Sunshine Law,
especiallythe things that have deadlines. I mean, we need to end the meeting
eventually,before the deadline,and ifthe deadline isMonday, we gottapush itthrough.
Imean, Inot saying 1:00,but 9 or 10, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, Chair can we justcontinue on, and tryto get through the
testimony,then see where we're at,at the end of testimony and make a decision?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'mokay with that.
CHAIR LEE: Everybody okay with that?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, Ijustwant to make sure I’m understanding thatwe're going
to tryto complete allthe testimoniesand then re-evaluatewhere we are atthattime?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 132
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, can Imake an assumption thatmaybe at thattime, we could
have a dinner break,too? Igot a kid Igot to take care of here, so.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we could talkabout that.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. That'sfine.Thank you. Okay, I'm good with that.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks, Members. James, please proceed.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisShayne Agawa, to
be followed by Emily Pallanes.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY SHAYNE AGAWA (testifying on County
Communication No. 22-167: and Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FD1 & 22-171):
Hi,can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Good afternoon, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, and Councilmembers. For those that do not know me, I am Shayne
Agawa, I'm the Deputy Directorhere at the Department of Water Supply and I'llbe
testifyingon Resolution22-171, Reso. 22-119 and County Communication 22-167, and
Ihave a lotof comments so I'lltryto go as fastas Ican.
So, Resolution 22-171. Department of Water Supply stronglysupports thisresolution,
which urges the Mayor to authorizea comprehensive feasibilitystudy forthe EMI water
system in East Maui. A feasibilitystudy willaddress many of the concerns thatthe
Department has, and in my opinion,concerns which allof you, Councilmembers and
the general publicshould have before making a huge decision inthe formation of a
regionalcommunity board and the Maui Nui Community Water Systems. How can a
decision of this magnitude be made without having accurate cost of acquiring,
operating and maintaining these regional water systems and without knowing an
accurate number of the futurerevenue generated by these water systems?
I'llgive you an example. So, when you go to purchase a new car and saying thatnew
car islikethiswater system, do you justsay "Iwillbuy the car because Ilove it."Or
do most of us ask what the purchase pricewillbe, what the cost of maintenance will
be, does the car have everything you need, or you need to purchase accessories in
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 133
the future? Another thingmost of us thinkabout once we know the totalcost of buying
thiscar is,am Iable to make the monthly payments with the amount Imake at my job,
my revenue. Ibelieve allof us willnot sign on the dotted lineto purchase thatcar until
we know allthe answers to these questions.
So, similarto making a decision on these water systems, there'sa lotof outstanding
questions, and I think we need to think a littlebitmore and have those questions
answered. DWS feelsthatthisresolutionisan importantfirststep in consideringthe
County's best interactionwith the East Maui water system, whichever agency takes the
lead in the State water lease process. We stillneed importantquestions answered
before we make huge decisions on water management issues, and we believethis
resolutionwould get us those answers.
Moving on to Reso 22-119, and County Communication 22-167. You know, priorto
this,Imust say IfeltIwas on a littleislandhere,and untilIheard Mr. Lesterspeak and
Ms. Aiwohi earlier that was like a breath of fresh air because there’s other minds out
there that,you know, have the same thought process. So, overall,Iwant to startwith
justoverallDWS comments on these two resos.
So, firstone. Department requests that more claritybe given when the terms "water
collectionand deliverysystems" are used, thatthose terms are nottobe confusedwith
water collectionand deliverysystems under the jurisdictionofthe Department ofWater
Supply. We also request that Section 8-11.2 be clarifiedto acknowledge our
Department's ongoing abilityto acquire and manage water sources.
Second overallcomment, the Department regularlydevelops new sources and also
accepts sources such as privatewells or other infrastructure,ifitisinthe best interest
of the Department and our customers, and we want to be sure thatthe Department
continues to have the abilityto do so.
Now gettingintocomments on the "Whereas’s". On the second "Whereas",page 1 of
the reso,"Any increaseto the cost ofwater forlocalfarmers and ranchers,jeopardizes
the effortsto promote localfood securityforMaui." As Iget on withmy othercomments,
itwillbring more clarityto thiscomment. The fourth"Whereas", reso page 1,"The
creation of an additional layer of bureaucracy normally reduces efficiencyand
increases costs." The fifth"Whereas", reso page 1,thisiswhere they brought up, you
know, a regionalwater authoritiesaround the country and the comparison. So, inthis
case, it'snot necessarilycomparing as bad as comparing apples and oranges,but itis
kind of likecomparing an apple to a mountain apple. You know, they both apples.
They both red when they ripe,but they not generallythe same thing.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 134
So the comment is,"Wholesale regionalwater authoritysystems generally own or
operate allmajor water supply facilitiesincludingthe reservoirs,the treatment plants,
and transmission lines. The related costs of service are then billedto municipalities
that own and operate transmission facilitiesand the linesin service areas. Then they
issue end users the billings,and provide serviceconnections to end user customers.
The eighth "Whereas", reso page 2. The Department of Water Supply is an existing
government agency with the abilityto provide clean and safe drinking water at
affordablerateswhile managing revenue, operating expenses, capitalimprovements,
and debt service. The Maui Nui Community Water Systems willrelyupon ratecharges
to the Department. The administrativeoverhead and operationalcosts of running the
regionalwater systems willbe passed on to the Department of Water Supply in the
form of high wholesale water rates. The Department of Water Supply customers will
ultimatelyabsorb these rateincreases.
The 21st "Whereas", reso page 3. The Department of Water Supply has a long
standing practiceof supporting agriculture.Water costs forlocalfarmers and ranchers
continue to be subsidized by general use customers. The FiscalYear '22 Water Rate
Study prepared by Harris& Associates, indicatesthatagriculturalcustomers pay about
30 percent of the totalcost required to provide the water they use. Maui Nui Water
Systems "additionalrevenue" cannot translateto reduced agriculturalwater rates as
system costs would be funded by increased wholesale ratesto DWS. The Department
of Water Supply would then be requiredto pass on thisadditionalcostto allcustomers.
That goes hand in hand with thatfirstcomment on the "Whereas", where we pass, we
need to pass on the rateincreases to the ranchers and the farmers.
Now the following comments are made directlyto the amended Chapter 19.
Section 8-19.1, Organization. The comment that we have is hiring staff with
appropriate licenses necessary to manage water collectionand deliverysystem poses
significantstaffingchallenges due to a limitedselectionof qualifiedapplicants. For
example, engineers, and personnel with water system experience are inshort supply.
Having agencies with similarduties willmean that there willbe competition for the
limitednumber of qualifiedcandidates to fillvacancies. Providingstaffwith competitive
salaries, benefit packages, training,and necessary equipment along with the
acquisition,operation, and maintenance for water collectionand delivery systems
would be costly.
CHAIR LEE; Shayne, can 1juststop you there? You signed up forthree items?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; 22-119, and then the-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 135
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: 22-171 and then 22-167.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, you covered two, and then you have one more to go?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Yeah. I'm almost done with all three.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Go ahead.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Section 8-19.3, Regional Community Board
Powers, Duties,and Functions. Item number 5. Appropriationswould have to initially
come from the General Fund. Willthe cost for the regionaloperations and capital
improvements be funded by an increase in realproperty taxes? Does thisinclude the
cost to acquire water collectionand distributionsystems as well? The Department of
Water Supply isan EnterpriseFund and itsrevenue isreserved forDWS expenses.
Item number 7 with regards to "water rates."We assume thatthe Department ofWater
Supply willbe a customer affectedby the water rates.The Department isconcerned
about what those rateswould be consideringthatwe pay, we currentlypay EMI $0.06
per one thousand gallons. How much willthe water rates need to be inorder to help
fund the Regional Community Boards' operatingbudget? Any increase inratestowhat
the Department iscurrentlypaying willultimatelybe passed on to the Department of
Water Supply's customers.
Section 8-19.4,Regional Administrators.This isthe second sentence, and thisisthe
lastitem Ihave where itsays, "water systems under the controlofthe water systems."
The Department is stillconfused about the jurisdictionof the Maui Nui Community
Water Systems referredto as "water systems" inSection 8-19.1. Under Section 8-19.1
"water systems" sounds likeit'sa jurisdictionthat oversees only a regionalwater
system, forexample, East Maui. But under Section 8-19.2,itsays Council willestablish
additionalregionalwater systems by ordinance. Itisstilluncleariftherewillbe a Maui
Nui Community Water System with itsown administratorand staffthathas jurisdiction
over the remaining districtswhere the Regional Community Boards have not yet been
establishedby Council. This is how the Department reads the second sentence in
Section 8-19.4. So, basicallyasking fora littlebitmore clarityon that.
Chair Lee, thatwas my lastcomment on behalf of the Department.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Members, questions?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 136
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. Good morning, or good after,good
evening. Deputy DirectorAgawa.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Good evening.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, I'vebeen follo\A/ingthe ayes and nays. Right,the yeas
and nays. Here's the yeas forthe water authorityand here'sthe nays and there'stwo
of you. And one was a, one was a lobbyist.So does the Department believe,I only
got 30 seconds, so does the Department believe thatwater isa publictrust?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: That isa tough question. Yes, Ibelievewater
isa commodity forpublicuse.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Well. Okay. Having said that,Idon'thave enough time to
go through what you justsaid. So, thank you Chair. Ihave no furtherquestions.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Shayne. Thanks forbeing here
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, itsounds likeyou're against the water authority.Are you
representingthe Mayor's pointof view on this?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: No, juststrictlyrepresentingthe Department of
Water Supply. Iwant to also make a disclaimerhere. So, our comments thatwe just
gave did not reflectanything about who has the water lease. As you know, right? I
declared all"Whereas". There was nothing said about--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, no. I'mjust,but Idon't have much time so, you know, my
concern isthatyou're asking us to postpone puttingthison the ballot.We don't,we
have to make a decision inthe next couple of days. So, once itgoes on the ballot,it
willbe the people's choice.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY; Right,so we're asking-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --votingfor it,voting forthe people to be able to have the choice.
But 1justwanted to letyou know thatat the Haiku Community Associationforum the
other day, the Mayor said thathe supports the water authoritynow. So, you mightwant
to go, get insync with whatever his new positionisnow. Iwanted to letyou know that.
Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 137
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: -it’smore forclarity.Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Ihave Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Shayne Agawa foryour testimony.
So, number one, can you give us what you said in writingso thatwe can, you know,
check withthe documents thatyou are testifyingabout. And itsounds liketo me some
of the reasons why the 22-171, which you brought up iswhat isthisgoing to cost?
What isthe impact to the taxpayer? And Ireallyam hearing you say thatitsounds like
the Department of Water Supply can do some of the things that the,the Council,or
the,what the Charter amendment isasking,right?
Ibelievethatyou as an entity,the Board ofWater Supply and the Department ofWater
Supply can move thisforward with the Mayor's, and you are an entitythateverybody
knows and I thinkthat you know, we would maybe feel secure ratherthan starting
something new. But you'retakingme down a differentthought path. But itissomething
that the Water Department, by your testimony that the Water Department could
undertake?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Yes, that is correct, Councilmember Sugimura.
Yeah, it'sjustwhichever government agency, ifthisregionalagency isformed, we still
as a Department could stillpursue, you know, the water lease rightsas well. But,yes,
to answer your question, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I'm sure Mr. Molina and myself,but I'mconcerned
about my residentsthatwould reallybe directlyimpacted by the EMI.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're on a shorter.Member Sugimura, we're on a shortertimeline
tonight.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Sorry about that. Anyway, good evening
Mr. Agawa. So just followingup about pursuing the lease. So, why hasn'tthe
Department pursued the lease at thispoint? And what would be the cost ifwe didn't
have a County water authority? You know, there'sa cost to everything,ifyou could
kind of touch on those two questions.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 138
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY; Thank you forthe question, Member Molina.
The firstquestion ishard,again Ihate using thisas an excuse, but I'veonly been back
inthe Department for,since March. So, it'shard to say what happened inthe past and
why the Department did not pursue it? Itwould be, Iguess unfairfor me to comment
on that. But what I can say is,you know, while I'm here, itis a possibilityfor the
Department to look into itnow. And Iknow the Administration may change inthe near
future but that isthe, the opinion that we have currentlyat the Department. And I'm
sorry,the second question?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, the cost of not having a County water authority?Imean,
basicallyleaving status quo.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY; Right. Right. So, the only thingthatwe know
that'sa certaintyrightnow isthatEMI hasn'traisedour rates.And we know how much
of a value itiskeeping itat such a low rate. Again, the unknown willbe what those
rateswillbe inthe future,ifthere isthe regionalauthoritythatovertakes. Knowing that
they are going to use the water ratesto supplement theiroperatingexpenses. And we
don't know any numbers, again, these are justconcerns of ours thatwe would like
maybe answered to the best possible way, you know? I mean, ifwe're going to be
paying what we're charging residents now at $2.05 every thousand gallons for
example, versus $0.06, per thousand gallons that'sa huge rate increase. And
ultimatelylikeany business although we're not a business, but likebusinesses you
pass on your cost increases to your customers and ultimatelythatwould be what would
happen.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Questions, Members? Ihave a question,Shayne. The question is.I'llget to
you Vice-Chair,one second. Just followingup on Member Molina'squestion. Ifthe
County were to take over the system, would you. do we the capacityto do itrightnow
with the resources and personnel we have now? Or would you have to add to hirea
number of people? Would you be able to maintain and operate the system?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: When you say take over the system, you don't
mean only the water lease rightsbut the actualphysicalsystem?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah. Yeah. EMI.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Yeah, to be honest rightnow we wouldn't have
the capacityto, the resources. We would need to ask most likelyfor expansion
positions,increase our budget. That's a huge cost. Idon'tknow what the number is.
Right now, we have a study inthe East Maui area forsources,butas faras the costof
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 139
estimatingthe system and what itwould be to operate and maintain and acquire,Ithink
that'spartof that Resolution 22-171. The intentiswe want to know what we have here
first.That'sthe firstquestion. So, thatisa good question, but Idon't have an answer,
but Ican say thatwe don'thave the resources rightto do that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Another questionfrom Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'm in my vehiclealone. Okay, so
and willreturnto the chambers after.Okay.
Aloha, Deputy DirectorAgawa. Mahalo foryour testimony. Ihave two questions. The
firstis regarding the part of the impetus of thisproposal is because we have been
taking up thisdiscussion in committee since lastyear and the Department of Water
Supply was prettyadamant about not pursuing the water leases or even looking intoa
feasibilitystudy.
And so today in response to some of the Members questions, itstillsounds very non
committal thatthe Department may or potentiallycould, and Idon'tthinkthat'senough
for us to feelconfidentinthe Department to,to trustthat itwillhappen. And so, the
question regarding,let'ssee. I'm sorry,I'm on my phone. It'sthe, under the "Be it
Resolved" "1. Except as set forthinchapter 19, the department ofwater supply shall
manage and operate allwater systems owned by the county." So that'san amendment
to Charter Section 14, to clarifythe jurisdictionof the water, DWS and the water
authority.Isthat not clearenough?
CHAIR LEE: Shayne?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Vice-Chair
Rawlins.
That does, yeah, clear itup a littlebit. Itjustwas referenced to the verbiage in the
actual reso thatwas a littleambiguous. But, yeah, itdoes, itdoes satisfythe difference
between the,the regionaland the Department.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, cause that'sthe Charter amendment section.
The reso iskind of background.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright.Mahalo, Deputy Director.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Shayne.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 140
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Members forthe
time.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyis Emily Pallanes, to
be followed by Jason Economou.
Emily Pallanes,itisyour time to testify.Admittedly,Idon'tsee you connected to the
meeting. Chair,shallwe move on to the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJason Economou.
MR. JASON ECONOMOU (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-62, 22-63. & 22-64: and
Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Good afternoon. Thank you allforthe opportunityto testifyafterso many hours. My
name is Jason Economou, I am the Government Affairs Director for the Realtors
Association of Maui, and Iwilltryand be brief.
Regarding Bill107, Committee Report 22-62. We have similarfeedback as Jeff
Gilbreathand some of the other people who have expressed concern over thisbill.I
spoke with Councilmember Johnson while thiswas stillincommittee. Iunderstand the
reasoning behind itand, and I can agree with that reasoning. However, thiswill
definitelyhave a chillingeffect on housing development. So we would support
additional subsidies to homebuyers, rather than risk having development of new
affordablehousing essentiallyhaltin Maui County forthe foreseeable future.
We want those 5,000 units in fiveyears that we allhoped for,and thisbillcould be a
part of that,ifitwas coupled with a robust system of subsidiesto,to accommodate
builders,but it'snot. Not yet. So, inthe meantime, untilthose systems of subsidies
are hashed out,then please justgive more money to homebuyers. Help the consumers
to offsetthe prices ifthey can'taffordthe priceswhere they'reat now. So, that'sour
input on Bill107.
Excuse me. Regarding Bill93. Committee Report 22-63. We stronglysupport tax
relief,realpropertytax relief.So, so thisisgreat.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 141
And along similarlines,22-64, dealing with disabled veterans. You know, well done.
This isgreat policy.We have close to 10 percent inflation.Itisgetting reallydifficult
forpeople to livehere,even ifthey own homes. So, so anything you can do to keep
our homeowners here and, and make economic lifemore viable for them here, we
stronglysupport.
Now, regarding the propositionto have multipleplanning commissions. Resolution
22-144, I believe itis. We know from that UHERO reportthat came out earlierthat,
that Maui County already has one of the highest regulatoryburdens in the country.
This adds complexity to an already unnecessarilycomplex system.
In a year when you guys picked more of the Charter Commission members thatever
before and had a Charter Commission seated to actuallylook atthisproposal already,
they turned itdown. They moved forward with a proposal thatthisproposal now has
conflictwith. And so, you'repotentiallygoing to put two proposals on the ballotthat
conflictwith each other,and then you already have something inthe works as faras
advisory committees to the planning commissions. You've got multipleattempts to
solve a not particularlywell-definedproblem at various stages through the legislative
process, and none of them reallywork well together.
So, just drop thisone. See how the other attempts work first.That's my guidance.
And Imean, justadding complexity to the system, that’salreadytoo complex formost
developers, itdoesn'tmake sense rightnow. So yeah, we, we oppose the abolishment
of the Maui Planning Commission forwhatever itisthiswould be. And Ihave to say
whatever itisthiswould be, because ifboth measures go on the ballotand they both
pass, you don'tknow what willbe the end result? We'llhave to bring inthe judiciary.
So, let’savoid that. And thatwould be it.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Jason. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisSterlingHiga inthe
chamber, to be followed by Larry Padilla.
CHAIR LEE: Isitstill17? How many testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, about 17.
MR. STERLING HIGA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-62):
Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Councilmembers. My name isSterlingHiga and Iserve
as Executive Directorof Housing Hawaii's Future, a non-profitmovement led by young
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 142
localswho willcreate opportunitiesfor Hawaii's Gen Z and Millennialsby ending the
workforce housing shortage.
I'm here to testifyon item 22-62 and I humbly ask that you defer Bill107. 1stand by
my writtentestimony and would liketo offerbriefremarks thatcan be summarized in
three words, please slow down. Inthe absence of a robust,well-publicizedand easily
accessible subsidy program, Bill107 willlead to a decrease inthe supply of affordable
and workforce housing. This would have a catastrophicimpact on the next generation
of Maui residentswho are already strugglingto achieve homeownership.
For sale housing at 80 percent or 100 percent area median income isoftenthe first
rung on the ladder of homeownership. Ifyou reduce the supply of housing atthatlevel,
you condemn people to be perpetual renters,and you increase the likelihoodthatlocals
willleave for California,Texas, or Nevada, where housing ismore affordable.
Ihumbly ask thatyou please defer thisbill.That you please allow fora more robust
discussion that involvesallstakeholders,includingaffordableand workforce housing
developers and housing advocates, echoing some of the earliertestimony of Jeff
Gilbreathand Todd Apo. And I humbly ask thatyou please ensure that the County
subsidy program meets the needs of homebuyers, lenders,and developers who atthe
end of the day are the ones buildingthe housing needed by young familieslikemy
own.
My wife and 1and our three childrenlivein Paia. We probably willnot livein Paia for
long because the rentthere iscrazy and the cost of homeownership on Maui are out
of control.This iswithinyour controlto affect.Homeowner subsidiescould make a
big difference,but ifyou justset pricesinthe absence of a subsidy program thatworks,
you willbe making the problem much worse forfamilieslikemy own.
I'm happy to meet you to discuss further,you can email me at sterlinq.hiqa@qmail.com
and Ithank you foryour time and service.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. We have a question,Mr. Higa.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Thanks forcoming, Mr. Higa. Iknow you
waited long, allday so thanks foryour patience.
Okay, so Iunderstand thatyou're saying without a robustsubsidiesforthe buyers,well
have you heard of the deferred mortgage program that we have put out and there's
grant for that particularitem?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 143
MR. HIGA; i have not and so one of the issues as I,in preparation for this,in reviewing the
agenda, Iwent and Ireviewed the County housing department, and the County Council
website. And ifthese resources exist,they are certainlynot well-publicized.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MR. HIGA: They're certainlynot accessible.So, that'smy feedback.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: -I appreciate that response. So, what I'm hearing you
saying you don'tlikethe,you want to take the affordablehousing priceguidelinesand
bring itback to committee. This reduces our price guidelines by 22 percent. So, a
$500,000 house would become a $400,000 house. And you're against that because
you're saying it'shurtingthe developers forbuilding? Ifthat'sthe case, Iwould refer
you to look at the billthat we did for the bonds for the developers. There's the
developer's side and then there'sthe buyers' side. So, thisbillisforthe buyers. So
I'm out of time but we can discuss this later and thanks forcoming.
MR. HIGA: I'dbe happy to discuss. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions.Members? Okay, thank you very much. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisLarry Padilla,to be
followed by Brandon Holmes.
MR. LARRY PADILU\ (testifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-61 & 22-68):
Hey, hey.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Good afternoon.
MR. PADILL4: My name isLarry Padilla.Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. PADILLA: Yeah. I must commend you guys. You have a tough job. Idon't know why
you guys even want the job, but you guys are doing great. Listen,I have two, two
issues. One of the issues Ihave isthat skateboard park. I'mfor more communication
between the developer of that skateboard park. I'vewitnessed many, many children
climbing the fence and going through and disregarding the keep out signs and
whatever. It'slike,you know, having a candy store with the door, justa chain across
the door and saying stay out. The kids are going to go inthere and we're more or less
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 144
teaching them to break the laws at a young age. And it'sbeen a year-and-a-half,two
years since the park has been closed, but I think you should reallyopen up some
communication with your, the developer of that skatepark at Kalama Park, and that
22-19, no, 22-68 that I'm talkingabout.
The other, the other one that I'm, is the 22-61. ... I'm definitelyopposed to the
subdivisionin Waipu'ilaniPark or Waipu'ilaniRoad. For obvious reasons you guys
have been through a lotabout why not. And, you know, when I came through here
back in'65,afterthe Vietnam War, Imade up my mind to come to Maui because, you
know, it'sthe government's responsibilityto keep us safe and with a stableeconomy.
And, you know, Ifeltvery unsafe forthe past,since I'vebeen going to the park every
night. The cars almost running me over a couple, three times. Ithinkwe need a light
there, a blinkinglightat Waipu'ilani,at leastto startwith. That would reallyhelp.
There's, I,I stood by the crosswalk there, and several times several cars come by
before one would stop, and my footwould have to be actuallyout on the road.
But you've heard a lotabout why not,and Ithinkit'sthe most importantthinghere isto
rebuildfaithinthe community, and the government, and do the rightthing. You guys,
you guys heard enough on it...and iknow these developers want to go, go, go and
that'sokay. They're doing theirjob,but there'sother places forit.The land swap would
be a wonderful idea.
Ifyou planttreesback there,or even an open space back there,itwould probably help
a lotwith the,the flooding,The trees would absorb the water... help the,the pollution
that'shappening and the,you know, the environmental thingthat'sgoing on. So, this
is,thisiswhat I'mjustasking you isto not approve the subdivision.It'sjusttotallyin
the wrong place. And restore,you know, help us restoreour community's faithinthe
government. You guys are the government and you guys are doing a wonderful job.
I'vebeen here for50 years, and I'vepaid my share intaxes. Believeme, Ihelp,Ihelp
pay, pay you know, you guys, you guys are doing good.
So, Iwould liketo letyou guys justgo on. The skatepark let'skeep thatthinggoing.
Develop it,open the doors and letthe kids have someplace to play at night. Imean
there'snothingforthem to do and Itake them down thereand they climbthe fence.
The subdivisionhere. I'm rightnext door and it'sa nightmare tryingto go through the
subdivision. And the subdivision,you have to pull over in the parking place to let
another car go by. So, it'skind of,it'sjustnot the rightplace. So, thank you forlooking
at that.
The other thing-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 145
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Padilla.Thank you, Mr. Padilla.
MR. PADILLA: Okay. The other thing--
CHAIR LEE: Another item?
MR. PADILLA: Yeah, one more item isthe water meter. I'm not sure, Ithought thatwas part
of the 22-19, 1might be wrong. But it's,you know, Ibrought 35 acres over in Kanaha
and tryingto get a water meter and they have to.and they'retellingme Ihave to do all
kinds of pipes and everything. Really a lotof. . .that Iput inthere. And now you're
tellingme thatyou are going to use these guys thatare buildingthe subdivisionand for
doing theirshare of the sidewalks and everythingelse.
And we don'thave a sidewalk on Waipu'ilaniRoad going to the park,going to Safeway,
and that'swhat they'repromoting. Oh, easy walk to Safeway, easy walk to the park.
Well let'sput a park on thisside ofthe road. Anyway guys, you got enough. You heard
enough. Keep going,do a good job,keep the faith.And let'sdo the rightthing,please.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Padilla.And Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot
thank you very much.
MR. PADILLA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyisBrandon Holmes, to be
followed by Pat Borge.
Brandon Holmes. Chair,they don'tappear to be connected to the meeting anymore.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We'll move on to the next testifier. Pat Borge, to be followed by
Dick Mayer.
MR. PAT BORGE (testifying on County Communication No. 22-167: Committee Report
Nos. 22-61,22-64 & 22-67: and Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 EDI & 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Good afternoon, Councilmembers and Chairman Alice Lee. Oh Alice, look likeyou
running out of Kleenex over there. I got some. But anyway, 1justhave few items I
would liketo bring up here. And firstof all,Iwant to tellMike Molina he looked really
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 146
good on a horse on July 4th. Grand entry,he looked really,reallysharp. The Mayor
he was kind of,was likethe shortest speech 1ever heard the Mayor make. You know
Ithinkhe was kind of nervous on the horse. But,everythingwent okay.
Anyway, Resolution 22-119. Ibelieve that it's,water isa publictrust,and itshould be
on the ballot. It'sup to the people to decide, not big corporations,or East Maui
Irrigation.It'sup to us to decide what we want to do. The Water Department says it's
going to cost us money. Everything costs money, but thisisthe firststep of tryingto
get thisthing resolved here. You know, thishas been going on foryears and years
about thiswater and Ithinkthisisa good step to get thiscommission going. Just put
iton the ballotand letthe people decide.
And forBill110, forthe veterans. Anything to help a veteran, Imean, anything. This
isa great thing,you know, likethe other gentleman was saying, it'svery hard to get,
you know, when you get rated,ittakes a long time,ittakes years. You don'tjustgo in
and say, oh you're50 percent. No, ittakes years and years, you know. So, you know,
this is a break forthese guys, you know. You know. I'm a veteran myself and you
know, we have to go through a lotto get,to even get 50 percent,you know. So, every
littlebithelps,and Iwant to thank Mike Molina forbringingthat out.
And forthat place in Lahaina, that 22-158, tear itdown. 1 mean, let'sgo ahead and
findout,do an investigationwith the Planning Department; how thisbuildinggot built?
I think the community there needs to see what reallyhappened here. I mean,
something likethat.
And the Waipu'ilani,22-61, Waipu'ilani.Idrivethatroad allthe time. Iknow the area
very well. You know, you talkabout affordablehouse, yeah, you know, affordable
housing we're talkingabout affordablehousing for years and years and years. And
when I tellGabe Johnson them, Mike Molina guys are always real advocates for
affordablehousing, Imean, righton. But you guys ...approve one, wellfirstofall,it's
a good thingit'snot going to the Planning Department because they would approve it,
bang. You know, some engineer isgoing to say there is no trafficimpact and they're
going say, oh, righton. Check itoff. Build it,you know. Thank god you guys got to
see this first.
But also,what I'mlookingat,you guys allowed Makena Resort,above Makena Landing
to buildallthese luxuryhomes and fourworkforce housing. How's that? How did this
guy make million-dollarhomes and put only four work houses? Imean, Ijust,Ijust,I
can'tcomprehend that,you know what Imean?
And also on the Planning Commission, 22-144. I'mallforthatto,to put iton the ballot
and have another advisory group. It'sallabout check and balance and accountability.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 147
And sometimes, Iknow some people are voting on there because they have connection
with this,connection with that,you know. It'snot about that,Ithink inthe planning of
Maui, we gotta have everybody from each community on that,on thatplanning so they
know what's going on in theircommunity before they vote on 'em and they ask the
tough questions,you know what Imean?
You know, Iwent to a Planning meeting a couple of months ago and there was a person
here in Makena had a business operating without a permit for 20 years and the
Planning Department supported it.Said righton, you know? No questions,tellingthem
thatmaybe you should ask formore when you go before the County Council. There's
no parking,there'snothing,you know what Imean. It'slikeI’msittingthere going,what
are you guys doing? You know what I mean. It'slikeeh, you praisingthem for not
having a permit for20 years. You know what Imean? Ijustdidn'tunderstand that.
And another question about the water, and allof thisis in the back of my head, well
how come our LieutenantGovernor becomes incharge of Mahi Pono? Huh? How all
of a sudden our Lieutenant Governor, former Lieutenant Governor becomes incharge
of Mahi Pono? That's my question. And you guys talkabout issues,and that'swhy
people in,people who think about government, hey what's going on, you know what I
mean? Just that I leave thatto you guys thoughts, and Alice Lee Ithinkyou should
take the evening off,take couple days off. And you have a good weekend and god
bless allyou guys. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,you take care.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testifyis Dick Mayer, and
then we'llcallBrandon Holmes again.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on County Communication No. 22-167: Committee Report
Nos. 22-61 & 22-63: and Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FDl 22-144 CD1 FD1, &
22-171):
Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I have a number of items and I'm going to tryand
go through them very quickly. First,Monday morning you may not want to startat
10:00, you may want to startat 9:00,why wait?
Main items now. With regard to the homeowner exemption going up to $300,000 and
$400,000 for long-term, I strongly applaud you doing that. But Ijustwant to raise a
question with you, what happens ifsomebody livesina house and gets the homeowner
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 148
exemptions but ifthey have an ‘ohana which they long-term rent,would they get a
300,000 plus the $400,000 or they justtake the higher of the two? That needs to be
clarifiedand so please look atthe wording there and make sure you, you may want the
700,000 but I'm not sure whether you do or don'twant that.
With regard to the water authority,you’ve heard so many people speak infavor. You
heard the Deputy Directorof the Water Department raisesome issues. Ithinkhe was
out of line. His Water Board has recommended this water authorityconcept. They did
a study,he made no referenceto hisown Water Board. The Mayor has stated he isin
favor of it. I'm not sure he is acting alone, or what kind of approval he has for the
comments he did make. He raised a number of issues and I think that most of them
could be deflated ifwe want to go through them one by one.
With regard to the South Maui wetlands housing project,letme read from my texthere.
The Council should turn down thisprojectand urge thatan affordablehousing project
be builtin the R & T Park, which since 2016, Ordinance No. 4347, they're already,
which isalready entitlingto build1200 homes. It'salready there on 102 acres within
that R & T Park. R & T homes would be very close to both the Kihei Charter School
and the new Kihei High School.
Ifthe owners of the R & T Park make itdifficultto get a projectlikethisgoing, the
Council should consider strippingthem of theirentitlements,which have been awaiting
much needed development formany years during an environment when we had low
interestrates. They had every opportunityto get a projectgoing and have made no
real effort to move those 1200 houses. That's where the affordablehousing could be.
Much of the infrastructureisalready intothat projectand it'salready entitled.That's
where itshould be and not in a wetlands down below where numerous residents have
cited problems.
With regards to Councilmember Sugimura's feasibilitystudy,Ithinkthatisway offbase
because she makes an assumption thatsomehow thatifMahi Pono were to get it,they
would continuesellingthe water to the County at $0.06 per thousand gallons.That's
totallyunreasonable, because they willhave to pay probably a much higherfee to the
State ifthey get the leases on thatland,and thatwillhave to be passed on and there'll
be a lotof pressure on them. There's no commitment on theirpartto offeritat $0.06.
On the other hand, Ian Hirokawa from the Department of Land and Natural Resources
has said that ifthe County were to take that over, they would perhaps get the
agreement forfree,gratisisthe term that he used. So, ifanythingthe County would
be able to get thatwater probably more cheaply than ifMahi Pono were to deliveritto
you. And itwould be under Canadian controlthrough a company, Mahi Pono, which
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 149
iscorporate in Delaware, it'sreallybeyond beliefthatthe County would want thatto be
the way forthe next 30 years, ratherthan takingover the water.
I do urge that a feasibility,that a business plan be prepared. Once the Charter
amendments isapproved, the Council should act very quicklyto get the new authority
going and prepare a business plan, what the costs. And ifitturns out that it'snot the
rightthing,there'sno, you don't have to go ahead and have the authorityoperating it.
You could say to the Water Department, please make arrangements or bid on itor not
bid on it. That's all I want to say at this point about the issue. But I don't think
Councilmember Sugimura's thingiswise at thistime.
And finally,with regard to the Maui Island districtplanning commissions. Each
community plan districtin the County must have the same benefitsthat the Lana'i
districtand Moloka'i districtnow enjoy, that is having control over their own
communities. With regard to the coastal zones district,there'stwo issues that have
been raised. With regards to the coastal zone management component of district
planning commissions, each districtcould apply the rulesofcoastalzone management
as they would affectthe very differentcoastal areas and conditionsfound ineach of
the community plan areas. So, in other words Hana would apply that rule quite
differentlythan let'ssay the coastlineof Kihei.And thatmight be a, much improvement
over what we now have as one planning commission tryingto do the whole islandand
not knowing the differentsituations.
And secondly,with regard to projectsand propertiesthatmay be found overlappingin
two differentdistricts,forexample, a big ranch maybe intwo differentdistricts.Itwould
be entirelyappropriateforthe two districtplanning commissions to meet concurrently
to discuss theirrecommendations justas the State has many of itscommittees meet
jointlywhen there'san issue that overlaps two differentcommittees' concerns. And
that'snot,thatshould not be a barrierto settingup the districtplanning commissions.
And I thank you and I wish you well. And I do thank you for your endurance and
applaud it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Dick. Questions, questions.Members?
MR. MAYER: A lot of items.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No questions. Take care of that cough.
MR. MAYER: Iwill.Ihope Ididn'toverwhelm you all.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 150
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisBrandon Holmes
to be followed by Jessie Kekiwi-Aweau.
CHAIR LEE; Repeat.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Brandon Holmes? He should be unmuted now. Brandon
Holmes?
MR. BRANDON HOLMES (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Yes, sir.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, yes, itisyour time to testify.
MR. HOLMES: Hi,thank you guys. You can hear me? Okay. Chatted with you guys last
time, Iappreciate you guys allbeing there. Been through itbefore back in2015, 2016,
2018, 2020, the water gets really,reallyhigh over on West Waipu'ilaniand itallrushes
from, directlyfrom East Waipu'ilaniand South Kihei Road. We discussed the Maui
Sunset failureover there as well. That being said,itdoes push thisdirectionfrom, you
know. East to West Waipu'ilanidown the mountain, ifyou will.And itisn'tgoing to get
resolved by growing higher ground especiallythe concrete. It'sgoing to get justworse
and worse and worse. There’s nothing that'sgoing to make itbetterifyou're going to
buildthere. There's nothing betterthan drainage.
And the fact that they get to bypass the possible drainage issue because they're
affordablehousing isjustgoing to make everybody's livesharder, everyone isgoing to
be lessoff.We need betterdrainage. Ifthey want to go and make a big drainand like
make a hole,you know, clean out to the ocean and however they want to do it,that’s
one thing. Iwould be in support of that. But ifthey'regoing to buildup, they'regoing
to,they'regoing to go two-story and they'regoing to do concrete over there,it'sgoing
to make our livesmuch harder. And so Ijustcan'tsupport that,because Iknow how it
is when every single time there's a hurricane, we have to go run out and grab
sandbags. It'sgoing to make iteven scarierforus actuallocalresidentswho livehere,
and it'sgoing to make ita lotworse.
And then as people mentioned the trafficand allof that. Ican barelyturn leftor right
when I leave my house. That's finewith me, but it'sgettingitworse isnot the ideal
scenario. Ifyou'regoing to approve them to do a project,great,then we need a stop
lightand we need a huge drains and we need to reconsider the whole area. And I
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 151
would be approved on that,just likeI would be on any other affordablehousing
situation.Iam a realestate person myself so I'mcoolwith allthat.
But itwon't be, itwon’t help anybody around the area ifwe're justgoing slidethings
through and letithappen withoutactual,you know, thoughtsbeing processed to make
the problems thatare already there up to code and make them rightinthe firstplace.
We cannot have that,that would just make it,make ita nightmare for everybody
involved,includingthe new tenants and residentsof thatsaid project.
So, my opinion iswe need to put itsomewhere else,or go big on the drains,go big on
the stop light,go much bigger. That's my opinion,ifyou'regoing to go foritgo bigger.
Besides that,it'snot going to work. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Nobody? Thank you very much foryour testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyis Jessie Kekiwi-
Aweau, to be followedby the individualcallinginfrom the phone number ending with
these last4-digits,9460.
MS. JESSIE KEKIWI-AWEAU (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. KEKIWI-AWEAU: Mahalo. Aloha mai kakou. My name is Jessie Kekiwi-Aweau, a
kanaka maoli from East Maui, Keanae, and Wailua Nui Moku. I am in support of
Councilmember Shane Sinenci's proposed amendment to establish Maui Nui
Community Water Authoritiesand an East Maui Regional Community Board.
My ohana has been kalo farmers formany generations and Ipersonally have seen the
damages thathave been done to our stream and ocean life,and also to our kalo farms.
Corporations were allowed to take 100 percent of our waters and divert itout of East
Maui and leave us kalo farmers with nothing,devastating our land. There isan olelo
no'eau, 'He ali'ika ‘aina,he kauwa ke kanaka', the land is a chief;and we as humans
are its servants. Wai means water. Waiwai means to be rich. So, this foreign
corporation wants to be waiwai with our wai. That no can. Water flows where itis
meant to flow, giving us the rightsto malama it. I believe that the people should
manage our waters.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 152
Like Amanda Martin and Jerome Kekiwi had said earlier,we have the expertiseand in
depth knowledge thatcan properlymanage the watershed and efficientlyrestorethe
ecosystem. We also have the most hands on and generationalknowledge to properly
manage the watersheds. Most of our kupuna who have fought to get the release of
our water back intoour East Maui streams are no longer here with us today. And yet,
here we are today stilltalkingabout the East Maui waters.
I believe that we need to take control of our water and that we the people should be
able to be at the discussion table whenever there is talk about East Maui waters. I
would liketo mahalo allthose of you who are in support of thisamendment. And for
allthose of you who are iffyabout it,1 would likeyou to know of the impact itwould
have on our East Maui communities and the lives of itspeople. No water, no life.
‘A'ohe ka wai, ‘a'ohekeola. Mahalo foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up totestifyisthe individualcalling
in from the phone number ending with these last4-digits,9460. To be followed by
Robin Knox.
9460, you're unmuted. Itisyour time to speak.
Chair, they'renot responding, shallwe justmove on to the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then Chair, the next testifieris Robin Knox, to be followed by
Lloyd Johnson.
Robin Knox does not appear to be connected to the meeting. We'll move on to the
next testifier,Lloyd Johnson.
Lloyd Johnson, we see that you're connected to the meeting, but you're not unmuting
yourself. You need to unmute yourself,we cannot unmute you.
Chair, perhaps Mr. Johnson-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 153
MR. LLOYD JOHNSON (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
Yes, I'm here.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Oh. Okay.
MR. JOHNSON: Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
MR. JOHNSON: Okay. My name's Lloyd Johnson. My propertyisadjacent to thisproposed
Waipu'ilanidevelopment. I'mopposed tothe project.And I'msure everybody issaying
thatwe're a bunch of NIMBY's, not inmy back yard,but there's much more to itthan
that.Because my propertyisadjacentto the propertyinquestion,Iknow what's wrong
with thisproposal.
Iacknowledge the need forworkforce housing, but thisisthe wrong place for it.This
siteissubjectto frequentflooding. Isthere anybody saying it'snot a flood zone? I
can't believe thisproposal is stillbeing considered. I understand the developer will
buildmarket value housing ifthisprojectisdeclined. At leastthe County willnot be
partners in such a blunder. Predictably,the buyers there willhave to trudge through
ankle deep water from home to car forseveral days followingseasonal heavy rains.
These houses willnot be a bargain. There willbe a lotof buyers' remorse. Are we to
letthe buyer beware?
This doesn't,apparently the develop has asked thatflood insurance be waived. Can
he be any more obvious? The buyers of these units willbe additional victims.
Apparently, he has been offeredthisalternateland trade and he has declined,
The empty lotinquestion isa necessary flood control.Anyone who has ever driven
on South KiheiRoad aftera heavy rainknows thatthe road isflooded forseveral days
after.That floodwater creeps up my driveway then finds low ground to followon the
south side ofmy house, intomy backyard, then intothatempty lot.Itthen takes several
days to absorb intothe ground there.
One of the two access roads for thisprojectis already too low for current traffic.
Kauhaa has parking on both sides and two-way traffic.I avoid thisstreetbecause it
isn'twide enough for two-way traffic.Ifthere is a car coming from the opposite
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 154
direction,one car has to pullover and yield.And thisprojectproposes more trafficon
that street. That's allIhave to say.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we
have the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testifyis Kay Anderson, to be
followed by Albert Perez.
MS. KAY ANDERSON [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. ANDERSON: Hi. My name is Kay Anderson. Thank you for allowing me to speak
tonight.Iappreciatethe time and effortthatyou ailtake. Iknow thatit'sreallydifficult
positionsthatyou are in,Iappreciate what you do forour County and for our people.
Iam speaking against Bill21, and I'dlikeforthe Councilmembers to actuallydefer this
billbecause Idon'tbelieve that itisready fora vote today. The people of Maui elected
the Councilmembers to work for them and to do what is in the best interest of the
people. The way the billiswrittentoday,thisisnot inthe best interestof the people.
I am not adverse to having a billthatwillwork forthe people and also to support the
seabirds, but thisbilldoes not do that. The way it'swrittenitimpacts everyone on, on
the, in Maui County. Not only does itimpact the County, theirlights,the cost of the
lights,the hotels,condominiums, itimpacts every single familythat owns theirhomes
in Upcountry, allover the islands. People that are strugglingtoday with 10 percent
inflationto even put food on the tablewillhave to replace theirlights.And Iwillsuspect
or predict that rather than replace their lights,they willremove theirlightsand not
replacethem, creatinga hazard attheirhomes. And thatisnot puttingthe best interest
of the County, the people of Maui County inthe best interestwhen you'remaking these
decisions.
Ithinkthatitwould be inthe best interestifyou take educated, more informed decision,
take more time, figureout what is inthe best interestof the people. How can we roll
out a plan that we can actuallysupport the people of Maui County so itissafe forthem,
and thatitisa more costly...cost effectiveapproach and thatwe can possiblyprotect
these birds. But the approach that ison the tabletoday isnot thatapproach.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 155
Also, Iwas a littledisappointed because you have invitedtwo people to your meeting
Monday thatseems to be on one side ofthe fence, Mr. Penniman and also the attorney,
Ithinkhe'swith Earth Justicewho actuallysued one of our hotelshere on Maui County
on thissame issue. Itseems likethat'sactuallyinvitingthe fox intothe hen house, but
there'snot anyone on the otherside such as Universityof Hawaii thathas done studies
on this.So, allI'm asking isthatthe County take a more educated approach, a more
balanced approach in making a decision forthe Maui County people when you move
forward with a solutionhere in Maui County. Thank you for your time. I appreciate
your efforts.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Sorry,Ihad to turnitoffwhile Isneezed. Any questions. Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Just a quick question.
Aloha, Ms. Anderson. Do you work forthe hotelindustry?
MS. ANDERSON: Ido not. I’mjusta privateindividual.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Privateindividual.Okay. Alright,thank you.
CHAIR KING: Any other questions.Members? Yes, Member, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Anderson.
You know, your testimony thatyou feltlikewe were prettyone-sided when we invited
people to be a resource. 1 don't think we intend to,to be one-sided. Ijustthinkthat
when people show up and we thinkwe'd liketo hear from them maybe a littlebitmore,
ask them questions,we ask them. So, do you have someone in mind thatyou would
liketo be able to say thatwe could inviteto be a resource on the Monday meeting?
MS. ANDERSON; Well, 1 understand there'sa study from the Universityof Hawaii. Ithink
whoever wrote thatstudy, Ithinkyou might want to invitethem? And Idon't know this
Mr. Hayes, but he spoke and he spoke on the other side of the, of the fence. So, it
would seem to me, ifyou wanted to show that you were being balanced and in the
topic,you might have invitedhim. And I'mnot saying thatIknow him at all,Iknow that
Inever read hisstudy,but to me, sittingback and looking that offerwasn't presented.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Ms. Anderson. My time is up. Thank you. Chair.
Thank you, Mr. Krueger.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 156
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any more comments or questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisAlbert
Perez, to be followed by the individualcallinginfrom the phone number ending with
the lastfour digits,5249.
CHAIR LEE: Hello. Albert?
MR. ALBERT PEREZ (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61 and Resolution Nos. 22-119
CD1 FD1 & 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Aloha, Chair. Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR, PEREZ; Hi. Just very quickly,1 am one of those people who was inspiredby Colette
Machado, and Iwant to honor her. Didn'tget a chance to do thatthismorning. Ialso
wanted to say that I'm concerned about you folks. Last time, Ithink you were sitting
down forsixteen hours, and that isnot healthy. So, I hope you are able to finda way
to manage these long hours.
I'm testifyingtoday on three things. Firstof allisthe regional planning commissions.
And I’m Albert Perez with Maui Tomorrow, and we support this Charter amendment
proposal. Allof our communities in Maui County deserve to have decisions that are
made about theircommunities ina way that issensitiveto the actual conditions on the
ground. Your neighbors are more likelyto make decisionsthatare appropriate foryour
neighborhood. Maui County isgrowing and it'stime to make sure thatwe're allequally
represented, and regional planning commissions willfurtherthat goal. With regard to
the claim that overlapping jurisdictionswillcreate problems, the jurisdictionsdo not
overlap. They're defined by the community plan region boundaries. Ifthere are issues
that affectmore than one jurisdiction,than those issues can be referredto more than
one planning commission just likethey are now. So, I urge you to fon/vardthisto the
people of Maui County fora decision in November.
Meanwhile, my next item in Kihei we have another housing projectbeing proposed in
wetlands. Of course, I'm speaking of Hale Waipu'ilani which translates to the
"waterspout." And Ithinkwe should pay attentionto thattraditionalculturalknowledge.
We are not doing any favors to people who are economically vulnerable and barely
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 157
able to afforda house by givingthem a chance to finallyhave a home inan area that
floods.
And the logic that there will be five homes there anyway escapes me, it'snot
guaranteed. They stillneed an SMA permit and even ifitdid happen there wouldn't be
as many people affectedby the inevitableflooding.People who can affordone ofthose
fivehomes would also be able to betterrecover financially.
Then according to the committee reportthe developer intends to receive a Federal
Emergency Management Agency letterof map amendment which would remove the
floodinsurance requirementforhomeowners. But accordingto the FEMA website, the
developer can request a letterof map revision,but there'sno guarantee that itwould
be granted. The LOMR must be, itmust consider other communities affected,property
owners nearby need to be notified,and it'ssubjectto appeal. So, it'snot guaranteed.
Also from the FEMA website, very importantly,issuance of a LOMR does not mean
that there'sno riskof flooding. They stress that not having a flood insurance policy
could have disastrousconsequences leavingyou with no financialprotectionfrom flood
losses. So, they recommend that you have flood insurance anyway, even with a
LOMR. And thiswilladd to the expense of livingthere and make itless affordable.
Ifwe keep approving projectslikethis,there willbe no wetlands leftto protectwith the
wetland's ordinance. And the reason thatthese projectskeep coming up isbecause
the land islessexpensive. Ifyou improve thisone, you willbe encouraging developers
to keep doing thison wetlands, in flood zones. Your disapproval would discourage
them.
Also, thiskind of projectwhere the deed restrictionisonly forten years, we're basically
chasing our tailsanyway. They willnot be affordableafterthat. In addition,as I
understand itifpeople don'tqualifyat lower income levelsand the County doesn't buy
the units,then they can be sold at market price.That isa windfallfordevelopers, and
Ibelieve that’sone reason thistype of projectisso attractive.Instead of the good kind
of projectlikeIkaikaOhana, Doug Bigley,those people.
Anyway, thisCouncil isalready moving inthe rightdirectionwhich isto help developers
be able to off-setthe higherpriceofmore suitableland by providing infrastructure.That
willprovide housing that isclearlyinthe publicinterest.Putting houses inflood zones
on wetlands is not.
Moving on. Let me take a sip,sorry. East Maui Community Water Authority. We
support this Charter amendment. It'stime for Maui County to take controlof it'sown
water resources. Having public water supply depend on privatewater systems ispoor
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 158
publicpolicyand itplaces the publicatthe mercy ofdecisionsthatare based on what's
best forthe company, not the publicinterest.It'salso risky.
Climate change and invasive species are making watersheds more susceptible to
landslides and watershed health will be criticalto maintainingany flow at all.Itmay or
may not be worth itfor a privatecompany to repairlandslidedamage to the ditches.
We don'twant that decision to be leftto a company's bottom-line when we're talking
about publictrustresources.
I'dalso liketo stressonce again to ensure thatthe EMI employees, who know how to
run thatsystem be retained,because they know itbest. And the water authoritywill
also need to work closelywith invasive species experts and others who can help
restorethe watershed. Water forseriousagriculturalusers can continue to be provided
balanced with instream uses such as kalo growing thathave priority.
With a publicwater management entity,decisions would be transparent, consistent
with the public trust,and an authoritymay be eligiblefor grant funding that'snot
availableto privatecorporations. This willoffsetthe costs that are of concern to the
Department of Water Supply and others. There has already been many investigations
regarding the feasibilityof this idea, not the least of which was the temporary
investigativegroup ofthe Board ofWater Supply. And Iwould justliketo compliment
Councilmember Sinenci,the Board of Water Supply, and allthe citizenswho have put
so much time intothoroughly vettingthisidea already.
Finally,I'dliketo pointout as Mr. Mayer did thatthe currentratesthatare being charged
to the County are not guaranteed. They're also subjectto corporate decision-making
that we're tryingto get out from under. So, thisCharter amendment would allow the
people of the County of Maui to take charge of theirown water future. And Iurge you
to approve itand send itto the people of Maui County fortheirdecision. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Questions? Ifnot,thank you Albert.
MR. PEREZ; Thank you. Don't stay up too late.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair the next-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, go ahead.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 159
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Sorry,before we go on to the next testifier,!was wondering if
we could do a temperature check as faras where we're at with testifiersand how we
want to proceed the restof the evening.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk,how many?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six testifiersremaining.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Shallwe justmove forward? Okay. Well proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisthe individualcalling
in from the phone number ending with these lastfour digits5249, to be followed by
Lehua Cosma.
5249, you're unmuted, itisyour time to testify.Chair,they are not responding, shall
we move on to the next testifier?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next testifieris Lehua Cosma.
MS. LEHUA COSMA [testifyingon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022): and Resolution Nos. 22-119
CD1 FD1 & 22-144 CD1 FD11:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. COSMA; Can you hear me? Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. COSMA: Aloha, Members, Chair Lee, and the County Council. Thank you for holding
on thislong. Ihave been waitingfrom thismorning, so, Iknow how you allfeel. Ican
hear your stomachs growling,but anyways Iwant talkabout lightingBill21.
Ifeelwe need to defer thisbecause I'vebeen hearing about Floridahas it,Big Island
have it,Honolulu has it.But you know what, we are Maui No Ka Oi. We are Maui. We
are not likeany other place.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 160
And Itrulybelieveithas something to do withthe wildlife,the birds.I'venever seen it
in Hana. 1 do think it'sa lot to do with the climate change that'shappening around
every community around the world. So, Ifeelthatmaybe we do a feasibilitystudy,and
reallylook atthe outcome. Isthisreallyimportant? Because Isee the fundingsforthis
can go towards something likeaffordablehousing. Itcan go to a much betterneed.
And Isupport the birds,but I'venever seen ithere in Hana dying.
And my concern as a Hana residentislatelyevery otherday, we've been going through
robberies because we livein isolation,a lotof places are dark. So, I feelwith this
lightingithelps bring securityto the homeowners, the residentsof Hana so thatwe can
avoid thiskind of robberiesgoing on. And it’snot justHana, it'sallover.
And Iagree with the Police Department, they need visibility,they need to have better
lightingand that'simportant. And so, with that Ijustask fora deferment untilwe can
do a betterstudy on thisand get the cost of what, what the amount oftaxpayer monies
isto pay forthis. So, I'm not in support of thisuntilitgets deferred and you guys do
more study, then I'm finewith it.
So, number two, thisis22-144. I like.I'm insupport of the amendment to revisethe
Charter of County of Maui to establishplanning commissions forallareas of Maui. I
think it'simportantthateach community thatknows theircommunity have a lotto say
in this planning. So, with that,i ask that we dissolve the Maui, the current Maui
Planning Commission. I sat on many, I sat for many terms on the Hana Advisory
Committee, and sometimes, our voices as a community are not heard because itgotta
go to the Maui Planning Commission and itbypasses allof us. No matterwhat we do
or say, and sometimes it'sgood, sometimes it'sbad. But that'swhy I feel each
community does deserve thisopportunity. Ifanybody knows theircommunity, it'sthe
people thatlivethere. So, Isupport that 100 percent.
And the other one Iwanted to talk about, and Ithank Councilmember Shane Sinenci
isthe Resolution 22-119. Ifeel it'ssuch an important matter that needs to be put on
the ballot,and letthe people decide. They know what the importance and Ispeak on
behalf of my kupuna and my ancestors from Keanae. Although I liveHana, but my
rootsare inKeanae, being my grandmother, grandfatherwas thereand yeah. Isupport
itbeing on the ballotand letthe people voices be heard. It'sonly fair,and that'sthe
three thingsthatIwanted to bringto your attentionthisevening.
So, Imahalo you, and Iask allof you to take intoconsiderationallthe testifiersbefore
me, whether in support, or not support. But Ithinkeveryone was insupport of putting
this on the ballot.So, mahalo nui loa. Ihope you get to go home early.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 161
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions?
MS. COSMA: Thank you,
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Ijusthave a question regarding Bill21.
MS. COSMA; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; There's a DLNR study thatsays thatthese birdsflyeast of
Haleakala mountain, so the eastside, Hana side and from September 15 to
December 15 iswhen they,when they come. So, have you noticedthem?
MS. COSMA; Nothing. The only birdswe have isthe iwa birds in Hana. A lotof iwa birds
that'son the islandofAlau. And it'sspread out throughout Hamoa. And not one time
Iever seen any of those birdsaffected. They know where theirhabitatis. Birds are
smart than what we usuallythink,you know, they are. But I'venever seen itin my
whole entirelife.Maybe--
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you.
MS. COSMA; -like the testifierbefore me said, he seen iton Dairy Road, a dead bird.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
MS. COSMA; Thank you, too.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you so much.
MS. COSMA; Chair Lee, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Take care.
MS. COSMA: And Co-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, thank you too. Ahuihou.
CHAIR LEE: A hui hou.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisEarle Medeiros, to
be followed by Barbara Barry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 162
CHAIR LEE: Repeat.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Earle Medeiros. Ibelieve you're at the Hana DistrictOffice.
MR. EARLE MEDEIROS (testifying on Communication No. 22-167 and Resolution 22-119
CD1 FDD:
Yes. Hello Council. Good evening to you guys.
CHAIR LEE: Good evening.
MR. MEDEIROS: Prettysoon nighttime,yeah. My name is Earle Medeiros and I reside in
Haneoo, Hanamau. What Lehua said isexactlytrue but Inot going there.
I'm testifyingin support to establisha Maui Water Authority and East Maui Regional
Community Board. And, and Iwant you guys to put thison the ballot,it'sResolution
22-119. And we as Maui County or Maui County people,Maui County or Maui County
peoples, should make, make differentboards to controleach designated district.
Today, many outside entitiesare tryingto take our resources and many, many other
things. You guys should know. You guys inthe midst of things. You know, it'sbeen
alialong, but Igot to commend you guys fordoing such a good job.
You know, forone example that,that Igoing use isthe LLCs that are startingto buy
up allthe propertiesallover the place. And they are corporations,justlikeevery other
corporation,theirgod ismoney, not god himself. Money, that'swhat they have, you
know? And Ilikeyou guys, Idon'tknow the answer to this,but. . .inthe LLCs, what
they pay forland tax? You guys go lookthatup. Iknow the answer to that. You know,
as they-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Earle,you seem to be frozen.
CHAIR LEE: Earle,can you hear us?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, itmight be a problem. Oh, there he is.
MR. MEDEIROS: Okay. Am Iokay? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you are.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 163
MR. MEDEIROS: Believe me, the same thingwon't happen with the water ifnothing isdone.
Please put thison the ballotand letthe people themselves decide what we're going to
do with it.Too long already. Other people come from other places and they tryingto
run us. Like Lehua said, we know thisplace betterthan anybody else. Put itto the
people. Let the people speak and voice theiropinion,because halfof the guys don't
know what they voting on, yeah. Money isthe bottom line,yeah, of everything. But
the only thing that I have to say is keep thissituationin our hands. Let the people
controltheirown destiny,not outsideentities.Ifwe never learnfrom previouspractices,
then damn us. And Ihope allyou guys listeningto what Isaying,Imean, it'senough
already. We've had enough. Aloha and imua.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? No questions. Thank you
so much forcoming.
MR. MEDEIROS: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Aloha.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next individualsigned up to testifyisBarbara Barry
to be followed by Keoni Kuoha.
MS. BARBARA BARRY rtestifving on Bill No. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022): Resolution No. 22-119
CD1 FD1: and Committee Report Nos 22-61 & 22-641:
Aloha, Chair, Councilmembers. Thank you so much forallowingus allto testifytoday.
Chair Lee, Ihope you feelbetterreallyfast. That's no fun to have to work when you
are sicklikethat.So, hopefullyyou allget some good restthisweekend. I'llmake this
quick. Ijustwant to talkabout a few thingstoday.
Resolution [sic]21 is a reallyimportant bill.It'sbeen worked on extensivelysince
January. There isa three-yeartimelineforthisto be put intoplace to help protectour
seabirds. And it'sbasicallythree-and-a-halfyears,when you count the sixmonths that
we have untilthe billwould go intoeffect. So, 1justreallythinkthatwe can stop the
fearmongering, and, and realizethatmaybe because the Mayor isopposed tothis,that
Corp. Counsel has been weaponized to,you know, come up with allofthese concerns
thathadn'tcome up inallof the,the,the several Committee meetings.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 164
So. Isupport this. Ithinkwe should move forward with it.There’s been a lotof bills
introduced inthe past,where you know, likethe Styrofoam bill,the suntan, you know,
oxybenzone ban, you know, everybody is likeso worried about the unintended
consequences ofthese thingshappening, when, infact,they were reallyimportantand
other counties have followed our lead.
So, it'snot justbirdsinHana, it's,you know, these birds are countywide. So, we have
to thinkabout it.And you know, people replace theirlightbulbs,they'llprobably end
up saving more money because they'llbe more energy efficientand they'llbe
supporting our seabird population,which is imperative,because once our seabirds
dwindle and become extinct,then well, that'snot the time to startthinkingabout this.
So, Ibelieve allof the considerations that need to be thought about have been thought
about and there are exemptions forfirefighters,and police,and temporary lighting,and
you know, our sports,evening sports,fieldlighting.So, there's reallyno apparent
reason why thisshould not be passed tonightor Monday, whenever you get around to
it.
My othercomment ison Resolution22-119. I'vealways been instrong support of the
County managing itsown, you know, publictrust,so water. The kalo farmers, the
ranchers,the farmers, Idon'tthinkwe need to worry about prices going up too much,
because we'llbe able to manage thisresource ina way thatisfairand equitable.And
perhaps the person or corporationwho's managing itnow, who gets the cheapest water
willbe paying theirfairshare.
And, you know, there'sa lotofways to thinkabout thisbut the time to startstudying ail
thishas passed. Because Imean, Ithinkit'sgood to study it,but itneeds to get on the
ballotbecause the people wants to see this,Maui County controlour water and not
some foreigncorporationthat isanswering to theirstockholders. So, I'dreallyliketo
see that move along, and I appreciate Councilmember Sinenci for bringing this bill
forward,as wellas Councilmember King forbringingforward the seabird lightingbill.
Just forthe record, Ido not support the Waipu'ilanidevelopment being builtin a flood
zone. Itjustseems like,Iknow what it'slikedealing with mold livingin Haiku. So, why
would we, why would we support that kind of development. There's gotta be a better
place foritand the wetlands serve theirpurpose to help drainthe water when itcomes
down the mountain. And it'sjustthe wrong spot forthat development.
Ialso support Bill110, helping our veterans, and Ithinkthat'sitforme. Thank you so
much forallowing me to testifytoday.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 165
MS. BARRY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisKeoni Kuoha, to be
followed by Junya Nakoa.
Junya Nakoa isthe lastindividualwe have to sign-up during thiscurrent testimony
period. Ifthere are any other individualswho would liketo testifyat thistestimony
period,please identifyyourselfinthe meeting chat,or sign-up with the appropriate staff
member. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Keoni.
MR. KEONI KUOHA (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FD1: and Committee Report
Nos. 22-61 & 22-62):
Aloha‘auinala. So close to the end. Aloha kakou. ‘O wau‘o Keoni Kuoha. I have the
privilegeof lobbyingthisCouncil as Directorof the House Maui Initiativeof the Hawaii
Community Foundation. Ialso come to you as a commissioner chosen by thisCouncil
to serve on the current Charter Commission. I'm here to affirmthat your Charter
Commission has fulfilleditskuleana. We spent over a year working to develop a final
set of proposals and we have put forward the best proposals possible.
Today you are consideringthree additions.Two ofthese proposals were never brought
before the Charter Commission so itmakes sense that thisCouncil consider adding
them to the ballot. However, one of these proposals was thoroughly vetted by the
Charter Commission and the majorityofthe commissioners did not believe thatputting
forward thisproposalwas inthe best interestof County residents.
I'm opposed to establishingplanning commissions for all community plan areas;
however, I didn'tstartoff with this view. When the proposal firstcame before the
Charter Commission, i supported itwholeheartedly. I thought itwould enable a
planning process that would represent the best interestsof our communities. Itwas
simple, more community voice in process creates outcomes that reflectthe needs of
the community. However, as Ilooked deeper intothe issue, Ichanged my mind.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 166
First,according to Harvard Law Review, localplanning boards are often subject to
capture by homeowners who oppose the constructionof affordablehousing out of
concern that a new development might change the character of theircommunity by
triggeringan influxof lower income and minority residents,creatingcongestion and
safety risksand depressing property prices. This observation is reinforcedacross the
affordable housing literature.
Second, according to the research literature,participantsinpublicmeetings are usually
not representative a cross-section of the general public. Instead they are
disproportionatelylikelyto be white, male, older,homeowners, frequent voters and
opposed to the projectat issue. This illustratesa deeply engrained equityissue inthe
land use planning process. The people withthe resources to participateinthe planning
process are not representativeof the broader community.
As a side note,today'stestimony against Hale Waipu'ilaniillustratesthispoint.These
two broadly established views in the research led me to my key concern that more
planning commissions willstifleaffordable housing development even more. This
Council has committed to housing as a human right.To fulfillthat commitment, the
only responsiblecourse of action isto oppose establishingplanning commissions for
allcommunity plan areas.
On two separate but ultimatelyrelatednotes,firstIsupport item 22-61, Hale Waipu'ilani
forthe reasons partlyIalready explained here. Please note that alltestifiersbrought
up the floodingissue, an issue that they got to choose to livewith. But most also
revealed that they simply prefer the neighborhood have less trafficand lower density
buildings. Itisunderstandable thatthey would have thispreference. The challenge
before thisCouncil isto put our community's need for affordable housing above the
preferences of the project'sneighbors. The Council should also address the flooding,
traffic,and safetyissues inthe area.
Second, I oppose item 22-62, Bill107 in itscurrent form. Jeff Gilbreath and I have
worked on some language thatwe believe accomplishes the goals of the current bill
while settingup the system for success. We would appreciate the opportunity to
discuss and furtherrefinethislanguage with the Council and other key stakeholders.
In closingjustwant to thank you for your patience and your fortitudein carryingout
your kuleana forthisCounty. Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Keoni. Members, questions? I see Member King. Member
Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here Mr. Kuoha. Itsounds
like you're opposed to every planning commission. You're, you're characterized
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 167
planning commissions as being inherentlyagainst affordablehousing, but we have
three planningcommissions inthe County rightnow. So, are you opposed to Molokai
having itsown planning commission, or Lanai having itsown planning commission, or
justthe restof the communities on Maui?
MR. KUOHA: 1 think.I'm not opposed to planning commissions. I thinkthat they are an
important piece to how our community feeds back to, to what happens in our
communities. They are an important check both on the privatedevelopment side,as
wellas the government side. Ithinkrightsizingthe planning commission iswhat we're
talkingabout. Maui Planning Commission islarge enough that itcan take a broader
view to development and consider,you know, people don't move islands as often as
they might move communities. And folksthatare lookingforaffordablehousing might
be in Wailuku, but work-
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. KUOHA: Mahaio.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Keoni, I'm glad you are here.
So, as you are speaking from the Charter Commission, and there isa amendment that
is going to come before the people, and then there'sthisone. So, are you speaking
because we don't need the two, the two amendments, which willifthey both get
passed, Ithinkwe're going to have a problem. Do you have a positionon that? Cause
Idid hear an opinionfrom that.
MR. KUOHA: Firstof all1justwant to clarify,I'm not speaking forthe Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. Ido know that.
MR. KUOHA: But,you know, Ido see conflictand so that,you know, thatcould create issues
down the road. But primarilyI'm coming from the positionthatwe spent a lotof time
talkingabout itand looking intoitand, and reallythinkingabout the problem. Idon't
thinkthat our current proposal addresses allof the issues. At one point we also kind
of addressed sortof the make-up inother ways. Because Ithinkthere's-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Then we have Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 168
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Kuoha foryour testimony.
Can you repeat your testimony for22-61. Ididn'tcatch it.
MR. KUOHA: Urn, for 22-61 I'm in support of itfor the reasons, you know, that the two
research pieces Iput forward. Ialso noted, justand, and thatthe testifiersIhear their
concerns about flooding issues. For one, most ifnot allof them got to choose to live
with that.And that'sjusta caveat to that. But Ialso note thatthey,they spoke to their
preferences about having lower density buildingsand less traffic.And it'sabsolutely
understandable thatthey hold these preferences. The challenge before thisCouncil is
to put our communities need for affordablehousing to balance that and put itabove
the preferences of projectneighbors.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And the safety issues during flooding about emergency
vehiclesgoing through doesn't concern you?
MR. KUOHA; Ithinkallof those thingsare concerning. I think that they're concerning for
existingresidents,likethe County needs to address those as well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Gabe, did you have your hand up earlier? No. Okay, anybody else? Ifnot
thank you very much foryour testimony.
MR. KUOHA; Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, we have one question. Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Just a real quick one. Aloha
Mr. Kuoha. Mahalo foryour testimony.
Earlierwhen the alarm went off,itcut out one of the lastthings you said. So, Ijust
wanted to repeat itto make sure that,and have you confirm thatwas what you said.
So you said that some people livein Wailuku and work in Kihei,was that what you
said?
MR. KUOHA: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for that clarification. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else. Ifnot,thank you very much foryour testimony.
MR. KUOHA: You folkshave a good evening. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 169
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Alright,Mr. Clerk,proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJunya Nakoa, to be
followed by Andrew Kayes.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA ftestifyingon County Communication Nos. 22-162, 22-169. & 22-170;
Committee Report Nos. 22-61 & 22-67; Resolution Nos. 22-119 CD1 FD1 & 22-144
GDI FD1; and BillNos. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022) & 92 GDI (2022)]:
Howzit. How you guys stay? Long ...day.
CHAIR LEE: Oh my god, you shaved your face.
MR. NAKOA: Yeah, poor thing. Now you guys gottasee thisugly face. Iwas tryingto hide
'em allthistime. But,da kine,you guys endured a long day. Iwas with you guys the
whole day but Iwas tryingto set-upcanoes. We gottago take out NapiliCanoe Club
to KahuluiHarbor. But,okay ...get bigwaves supposed to come. But we going make
the thinghappen, we make stuffhappen. Okay, Igoing,Iwanted fordo 'em by da kine
each item, but neva mind, I going make 'em realfast cause I busy tomorrow and
whatever.
Okay. Here we go. Okay, 22-169. You know, the Auditor,yeah, and his plan for
audits,yeah, we gottamake sure the buggah doing a good job because get planning,
you guys know how 1feelingabout the Planning Department and what not and allthese
auditsand what not. We gottamake sure the iDuggahisdone right.Done good, so us,
the taxpayers no lose out,yeah, and we get,we jam up and we get screwed. Okay?
Just making sure about thatauditone.
Okay, realfast,the next one now, 22-170. The Water Department guys. Yeah, howzit,
bruddah Shayne Agawa. Today you had the,you wear the hat as a Water Department
guy, not one Lahainaluna classmate with me. But howzit bruddah. Yeah, you know,
you guys talkingabout allthis,allthisyou guys no can, you know, cannot you know,
no more enough people this,no more enough people that. You guys going go check
out the surface water and allthe water meters and all this kine stuff.
My good bruddah, Kai Keahi when, had one good post about, you know, here in
Lahaina and he when driveallthe way to Kapalua and Kapalua allgreen. Green the
buggah. But he come down by my house, Napilihau,the buggah dry, alldry. Then
you go to Kahana, dry. You go Honokowai, dry. Oh, now you stay in,you stay in
Kaanapali, now. Oh, the buggah green again.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 170
What's the problem here guys? The Water Department gotta make sure ifthey going
put one restrictionon Lahaina people, yeah, make sure itgoes for everybody. The
hotelsand allthose guys too. Not only us guys, yeah? I not joking. And you know
what? I taking initiative.I called up allthe hotel general managers. I'm working
something out. Yeah, likeIsaid,I'ma man of action,Ino foolaround inLahaina. Okay,
and so yeah, so bruddah Shayne, go check thatout,brah. Iwhen stop by your office
lastweek, you wasn't there and talkto you bum-bye. We going use the Lahainaluna
hat, too.
Okay, the next one 22-61. Okay. You guys know already the name of that stupid
housing. You going put 'em where? In one, in one floodzone. You guys going put
urn where? In a place thatthe.the Kihei always get floods and allthatstuff.Imean, I
mean, I mean I neva go college likethat,but common sense, common sense. You
going make the,you going make the localssuffer,okay? They going have to go buy
allthiskine stuffand they going da kine,Ithinkwas Albertwhen say 'urn,you know,
the localsgottasuffer.Gotta go, you know, pay floodinsurance or whatever. Gotta go
tryfix'em when the buggah flooded and allthatstuff.
And yeah, I know he mentioned about five houses, oh yeah, take five houses, go
ahead. Put fivedummies inside there. Okay they get money that ifthe buggah get
flooded, letthem take care of 'um. You know what I mean? Better than making the
locals suffer.
No use thisaffordablehousing excuse, now guys, excuse the developers always use
forscrew us up, forscrew us localsup, yeah, and forfailure.We gottamake, we gotta
set um up forthe localsforsuccess, not failure,yeah gang. So, listento that buggah,
listento allthe people who, who all,mostly when speak against um. Listento the
people of the area. I know the bruddah, the buddah rightbefore me when say, oh
yeah, hisneighborhood and stuff.Ino care what, ifItalkingabout Napilihau,you guys
going hear from me, you guys betterlisten,okay? So, Ijustsaying, ifthe neighbors
over there no like'um, allthe safety issues, likethat,brah listento 'um, okay. Listen to
'um. Like how Imade you guys listento about the Napilihouse over here. That stupid
illegalhotel. Igoing talkabout that rightnext. Okay, pau.
22-67, the eminent domain forstupid Greg Brown illegalhotel,yeah. You know, we,
we here because the failureof the, the Administration, okay? And Ithanking you guys
because you givingthe Mayor, one, one other opportunity,one other choice to look at,
yeah? And so, back that up but Ithink was Uncle Pat Borge said, knock that damn
thingdown, yeah? For real,knock 'em down. You put culturalcenter,you put a cultural
center on an illegalbuildingit'sstillillegal.No put one bow on one ugly present. Us,
the people of Napilistillgotta livewith it.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 171
And Iknow you guys talkingabout making one culture.Ifanything gang listento me,
ifyou guys going buy the damn thingand you guys going make something, no make
'urn one cultural center in the middle of all the haoles over there and only get couple
localsacross the street. Make that buggah intoda kine brah, one, what you callthe
thing? One emergency place,where the doctor,you know? Ifsomebody get hurt,like
how Igot buss up couple years ago, Ihad to get medivac, yeah? Ihad to get medivac
Honolulu, yeah gottawait forthe buggahs come. You know what Imean, maybe ifthe
kine can handle one pool on top thatroof,maybe we can make one helipadon top that,
the buggahs can land over therewhileyou guys can take care,take care the guys who
injuredor sick,yeah likethat.
And you know how NapiliBay, NapiliBay and allover there, DT Fleming, they get how
many dummies they go, they go too farand then they get lostinthe sea yeah likethat.
So maybe you guys make 'um one emergency doctor place,you know, so people can
go over there take care themselves. Okay, the stupidGreg Brown. Oh, and the Greg
Brown thing,I get one meeting scheduled with the Mayor at 9:45 on Monday to talk
about hisdecisionon thisGreg Brown thing. So listenup gang, Igoing letyou guys
know what's going on. Okay, pau thatone.
Now Igoing to the 22-119, the East Maui water. Oh my god, plainand simple,thisis
forthe people of Maui, not,not one, one outsidecompany. And you know, Mahi Pono,
they likeput the,them too,they likeput the make-up on themselves. Make likethey
doing good. They going grow lemons, they going grow lime, they going grow that.
They put 'um allon the side of the road so everybody can see 'um. They make big
sign,everything. But you know what, it'sallabout they likethe controlof the water.
And ifthey like,they trueto themselves, they likemake food forthe people, then, then
letthem justgrow food. Let them show theirtruecolors.
Give the water back to the people, especiallyto the people of East Maui, yeah?
Mahalo, bruddah Shane fordoing 'um. For making thisbuggah, yeah again. We going
fightthisthingtothe end, but Ithinkyou guys know, put the buggah on the ballot.Make
the people, make the people vote on 'um. Just likehow allof us can put our name on
the ballotso they can vote forus,yeah? Yeah, yeah, same thing. Same thing. Make
the people vote. Make the people's choice, make them pick who they like,and what
they like.Okay, thatone pau.
What this? 22-144. The planning commission one, yeah? Oh, therewe go, rightback
intoitagain. Okay, sorry,but the planning commissions, Igive them nothing but credit
cause they no get paid. Sometimes they sitinthe meeting forever.Yeah, justlikehow
you guys sittingin the meeting today. Yup, but a lotof them already get theirminds
made up because ifyou guys ever listento one planning commission meeting, allthe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 172
testimonies,might have one, the Wailea project,out of allof the testimonies,Ithink
had likeseven, I dunno, ittook alldamn day. Maybe only four of them \nbs forthe
project,allof us, allof us was against the damn project. But what happened? The
planning commission goes and ask the Planning Department Directorwhat istheir,
what is,what they likethem do? And here comes MichelleMcLean, oh we recommend
that you guys pass this,you pass thisso they no need get theirEIS, EEA, whatever
letteryou want to throw out there. Okay? Let them do the whole nine yards ifthe
buggah good, yeah?
Itellyou guys, rightnow the planning commission, now thisone you guys likemake
'em allthe districts,yeah? Brah, and then, eh I'vebeen justtalkingto,sorrybruddah
Ipo,Igoing bringyour name up. Iwas talkingto the bruddah Ipojustcouple days ago
and he said, why Lahaina people get hard time for come on top boards and
commissions? I going tellyou this,brah. we tiredget screwed over by thisdamn
Administrationand government. Igoing tellyou honestly,we tired.We no more trust,
we no more trust.
Cause you get one guy on the commission from Lahaina but then, and then you go,
you know, justhad the one inKahana. Down here,the one the guy, the seawallthing.
Only one guy was over here from Lahaina. The restwas from allover the damn place.
But they never know the issue thatwe livewith every day. So, Ithinkthe one withthe
districtsplanning commission, that'sthe one, guys. And watch, you guys make one for
Lahaina, oh brah, we going get some action. We going get some action. We going
get,Igoing get people tojump on. Igoing jump on 'em, that'sforsure. Okay, going to
the next one.
...hellIget now. Oh, twenty,no, no. The 21, one, the one withthe birds.The lighting,
yeah? Good job,guys. Good job lookingintoit,okay? What do you call?You know,
you get plentyexemptions insidehere. You know, from the policecoming over here
grumbling about the lightsand what not. Hey, Iunderstand thatforsafetyreasons but
get exemptions for that.
Get the MIL guy, Iheard. And so happy and Iget footballplayersallthey paddle canoe
they was listening,you know what Imean? And allthe kine baseballplayersthatwas
listeningand what not. Brah, try'um out. Try test'urn.Try go, trygo put,trygo put
the lightnext to the other lightand go see how the buggah work, yeah?
You know the kine, because likeIsaid, Igoing bring 'um up again. Here in Lahaina,
the softballfield,or baseball field,whatever you want to callit,they justwhen installall
brand-new lightson one fieldthat not once did they put on the lightyet. Not once,
nothing,zero,okay? No use thatpark nighttime.The park isnotbeing used nighttime.
So, why you guys no use thatpark forput the lighthalfsideand halfon the otherside
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 173
and trytestthe buggah out. See how dangerous the buggah is.Ican bringmy baseball
team go practiceat nighttime.They like,they likeplay nighttime.You know what I
mean?
Over here inNapili,when the buggah dark,aww pau practice.But justtry'urnoutguys,
get plentyexemptions. Okay? Get plentyexemptions thatyou guys when put in. So,
you know what, pass thatbuggah. Ifthe buggah no work, hey, come back change 'urn
again. Idunno what you guys doing. But yeah, so Isupport thatbuggah, cause you
know what? Some nativeHawaiian birdgang, you know what Imean. It’ssomething
thatwe gottastartprotectingthe natives,brah. And you know what, Igoing work hard
to fightthe Native Hawaiians. To get the Native Hawaiians back on theirland,ceded
lands, yeah. Watch, you guys justwatch, watch, going get some action in Lahaina,
okay. So yeah, take care the nativebirdsand you know, you guys likesome people
say take care the humans. How can? The humans no can even take care themselves,
yeah, okay. Love you guys.
Let me go tothe next one, 92. The residence requirement forthe planning commission.
Yeah. . . .whole damn thing,you from Lahaina, we going letyou guys know what
happen in Lahaina. You guys know that. We speak our mind. We stand up strong.
We no foolaround. So, yeah make sure thatthe buggah from Lahaina,make sure the
buggah not from New Jersey or whatever the heck over there. But,you know, make
sure the buggahs liveover here,they know, we no the kine,we know thisplace and all
that stuff.But yeah, okay. Iwhen squeeze'urn prettyfastguys, my bad. That was all
of 'urn.You guys, you guys, Igoing say 'um, you guys allbad ass, good job. Now !
got to go get ready forpaddling stuff.You guys have a greatweekend, guys. Yes. sir.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, 1had a question. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Nakoa foryour testimony. Ijustwas on the firstitem clarifyingthat,you
know when we're,ifyou're aware thatwhen the county puts water restrictionsitsonly
forthe County service lines.And those areas thatyou mentioned isnot serviced by
the County Department of Water Supply. So, when the restrictionis on, it’sfor
Department of Water Supply service linesand not privatewater. Justwas clarifyingif
you knew that?
MR. NAKOA: Okay, yeah, cherry. 1know thatbecause Igot thatbrought up by one bruddah
who got,who got firedby the County. He used to work forthe water company. And
he knew thatpeople going say, going bringup thisthingabout the R-1 water,they get
theirown water. Same thinkwhen Italkto the general managers. They saidthe same
thing. They get theirown waterline. You know, they get theirown whatever, water
whatever. So, Iknow allthatstuff.Iknow that buggah. Let me finishthisnow, 1going
answer. I know that buggah, okay. But Ijustgoing, and then a lotof the general
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 174
managers liveover here too,they Hawaiians, okay. Ijustlikesay, what goes forall,
goes for,you know, one, go forone, go forall.So, we going work on a solutiongang.
Itellyou rightnow, Iworking on 'em. Igoing meet with the,allthe general managers
and we going make thisthing allpono and Igoing justtellyou guys we going make,
eh, Isorry Igoing swear but 1make shithappen and we going make ithappen. Shoots.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any otherquestions.Members? Ifnot,thank you, Junya. Have a niceweekend
MR. NAKOA: Okay. You guys have a good one. Yessah.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so, Mr. Clerk,who's left?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson we have signed up for this testimony
period isAndrew Kayes.
MR. ANDREW KAYES [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Can you guys hear me, okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. KAYES: Okay. Thanks. Hey, quicklyI'lltryto be lessthan one minute. Ijustwanted to
speak against Bill21. I feel likethisis a, has good intentionsbut willlikelyhave
unintended consequences of increased crime. And Ihope maybe you'lldefer thisor
consider adding more robust exemptions forresidentialproperties.Inoticethere are
quite a few, Idid look at itand read it,but 1thinkthat Hawaii islandwhen Ilooked at
theirshad more robust exemptions forhomeowners. But 1do wish you best of luck in
your decisions and that'sreallyall1had to say. Anything else Isay atthispointwould
be repeatingwhat others have said. So, Iwish you the best of luck.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kayes. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. KAYES: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 175
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, no other individuals have indicated an intentto testify
during this testimony period. Ifanyone would liketo testifynow, please identify
yourself.This isour lastcallforthistestimony period. Chair, no one else has indicated
thatthey would liketo testifyat thistime.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Eric Miyasato;
Amanda M. Martin,Na Moku Aupuni o Ko'olau Hui;
Kalae Martin;
Marty Cooper;
Jim Hayes;
Rick Alexander;
Wade Hondo;
Jennifer Chapman;
Gabriel E. Krueger;
JeffGilbreath,Hawaii Community Lending;
Randy Wagner;
David Lane Henkin, Earthjustice;
Mary Jo Padilla;
Regina Padilla;
Don Gerry;
Shayne R. Agawa, Deputy Directorof Water Supply;
SterlingHiga;
Larry Padilla;
Lloyd Johnson;
Andrew Kayes;
Shay Chan Hodges;
Shekinah Cantere;
David Bruce;
Jordan Molina, Director of Public Works;
Randy Yamanuha;
David Dorn;
John Pelletier,Chief of Police;
Joe Kent, Grassroot Instituteof Hawaii;
Scott Abbott;
Junelle M. Akiona;
Lorinda Alana;
Helen Dale Allen-Alioto;
Keith Amemiya;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 176
34. Bruce Anderson;
Andrew;
Joel Angyal;
Debbie Arakaki;
Lindsy Asman, PacificIslandsFish and WildlifeOffice;
Dezireen Austin;
Chris Bakeman;
Traci Marie Bean;
Cassandra Beaumont;
Gloria Bennett;
Jude Jean Paul Bernard;
Bobbie Best;
Rick Bickford;
HeidiBigelow,West Maui Land Company, Inc.;
Julia Bissen;
Nicholas Blum;
Dan Bolton;
Steven Bronstein;
Chris Bruce;
Danielle Bruce;
Gloria Bruce;
Natalie Bruce;
Robert Bruce;
Scott V. Bruce;
Terry Bruce;
Robert Bryan;
Justin Cantere;
Jacqueline Carroll;
Christina;
Allison Cleghorn, Office of Climate Change, Resiliency, and
Sustainability;
Jonathan Conrad, Lahainaluna High School;
Brandi Corpuz;
Jean Corpuz;
David Cunningham;
ElijahCurry;
Diana Loomis Dahl;
Vivian Dames;
Martha Davenport;
Maria de Melo;
Lynn DeCoite, Hawaii State Senate;
Michael Dega;
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 177
Suzie Dorn;
Michael J. Duberstein;
Christian Dumalanta;
Gina Duncan;
Travis Duncan;
Isara Ebsen;
Gary Elster;
Falishah;
JeffreyFawson;
Ashley Fazal;
Naeem Fazal;
Paul Fedi;
Dyvette Fong;
For Sale on Maui;
Eric Frankum, Westin Maui Resort & Spa;
Linda Freidenburg;
Marisa Fujimoto;
Edna Galinato;
Keith Garcia
Chelsea Gerbig-Bedoya;
Gerard C. Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
John Gillespie;
Patty Gorski;
BillGreenleaf;
Laura Gyori;
Ritama Haaga;
Derek Hall;
Kawailehua Kuluhiwa Hall;
Heidi;
Kentrie Ho Cantero;
Nicole Hollern;
Hosaka;
Denise Iseri-Matsubara, Hawaii Housing Finance and Development
Corporation;
Aya Iwasaki;
John J.;
Taylor Jerome;
Leslie Johnsen;
Erika Kawehi Kaaa;
Ka'akakai & John Kaahui;
Debra Kahula;
Vernon Kalanikau;
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 178
116. Russell Kallstrom;
Dawn Kaluakini;
Lena Kamai;
Justin Kanakaole;
Linden Kanamu;
Charlie Kao;
Barb Kapua;
Mary M. Kerstulovich;
Cheryl King;
KellyT. King, Councilmember;
Walter & Opuulani Kaauamo Kuluhiwa;
Chris Laidlaw;
Debra Larson;
Lisa Levang;
Aviva Libitsky;
Aubrey Long;
Amanda MacDowell;
Scott MacDowell;
Mahina;
Marlapet;
Martha E. Martin;
Michelle Martinek;
Maryse;
Reverend Mario Masias;
Mark Matsuda;
Noelle McClure;
Bruce McDonald;
Lara McGlashan;
Jeramia McMuHin;
Abbey McPike;
Steve Miller;
Tanja Kala Miller;
Norman & Marion Moe;
Nancy Montoya;
Dolly Moreno;
Arshak Navruzyan;
Cody Nemet;
Mike Neubauer;
Irene Newhouse;
Tina Nguyen;
Lisa Nowacky;
George Nunes;
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 179
158. Dennis O'Donnell;
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros;
Paul Olson;
Melody-Lei Osinem;
Ken Ota;
Leiane Paci, Dunes at Maui Lani;
PacificResource Partnership;
Elena Panigada;
Gary Passon;
Lisa Paulson, Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Frances Pitzer;
Joseph D. Piuta,West Maui Taxpayers Association;
Megan Loomis Powers;
Z. Kekoa Powers;
Jason Purcell & Erika Thomason;
Lindsey Rex;
Grant Rice;
Anthony Riecke-Gonzales;
Jodi Riley;
Russell Riley;
Yaqueline Rodriguez;
Quezia Rogers;
Fred Romvari;
Regina Sagun;
Gary Savage;
Linda Schatz;
Linda Schlichting;
Charlene Schulenburg;
Christa Seals;
Sese;
Diane Shepherd;
Robin Sibley;
Megan Slorena;
Julayna Smith;
Lloyd K. Sodetani;
Charles Spence & James Batchelder;
Hugh Starr;
Patricia Stillwell;
Terry Stratton;
Roderick Sumagit;
Rie Takahashi;
Lori Tanaka;
159.
160
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 180
200. WillTang;
Cassandra Tengan;
Yana Torgan;
Yoko Toyama;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
EstelitaUlibas;
AprilValdez;
Suparna Vashisht;
ChristineVeazey;
Mark Virgino;
Laura Vo;
Richard J. Wainscoat;
Andrea Walls;
Evan Webb;
Rakai'el Webb;
Jane West;
Claudia Wethall;
Sam Wilhelm;
Anita Wintner;
Martha Woodbury; and
Michael Zemrus.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
CHAIR LEE: Members, what's your pleasure?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Do as much as we can, as fastas we can. That's my pleasure.
CHAIR LEE: That'syour pleasure.
What about Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Ifwe are going to go on, we should take
a dinner break, but then thatwould allow us to only do about a hour'sworth ofwork, so
Idon't reallythink it'sthe point. So, Ithinkwe should recess now and then go Monday
morning brightand early.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I concur.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, we have two forthat one, thatsuggestion.
Member Molina, which one do you pick?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Iguess recess tillMonday.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 181
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; I'd like to do the Consent Calendar and the County
Communications ... the Bills.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The minutes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, no more minutes. Bills,because it'sjust one,
two, three,four,fivebudget bills.And those 1don'tthinkwould attracttestimony. So,
justthe Consent Calendar and. thatwe haven't heard any testimony on, and those, the
billson firstreading forconsideration,and then we can recess.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, okay. Moving down the line.Ialreadyheard from Member Kama. What
about Member Sinenci,Member King,and then Member Sugimura?
Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I'mokay with moving forward the next hour.
CHAIR LEE: You're okay with what?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Moving forward to the next hour and then breaking, recess to
Monday.
CHAIR LEE: Work forone hour,okay.
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, I'mtryingto figureout what-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Keani-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'mokay doing the Consent Calendar, cause there'sno minutes.
CHAIR LEE: And the others are budget bills.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, ifthere's,then you can do itallat once? Okay, then I'm
okay with doing that before we break, or break forthe. I'drather,if,yeah we do that,
then Ithinkwe should justbreak forthe day and come back on Monday, isthatwhat
you’re saying? After we do-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 182
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. Okay. Ican livewith that. So, we do Consent Calendar
and the fivebudget bills,which we can do altogether,and then break forthe day. That
would be my preference.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Concur.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'd like to hear from you. Chair, because that’s.I'm
concerned about your health. I,I mean, I don't want to,you're sick,you know, you
should go home. Callyour union.
CHAIR LEE: Iam. I'm reallyopen to anything, really.So, I'm more concerned about you
guys. So, we have three, three.
Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, let'sjustgo ahead with Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
juststartand go. Enough talkalready. Let'sdo it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Everybody okay with that? Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, Chair, so, ifwe're going to go forthe next,what, one hour?
CHAIR LEE: No. We're justgoing to do the Consent Calendar and the fivebills.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, okay. Oh, okay. Alright.Okay, let’sgo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, Clerk? Mr. Clerk,callthem up.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on the Consent Calendar.
Chair, no individualshave signed up to testifyon these items. Ifthere are any
individualswho want to testifyon items on the Consent Calendar, please identify
yourself now. This isthe lastcallfortestimony on these items.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 183
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingtestimony on these items, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,then proceeding--
CHAIRLEE: Proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-156 - JORDAN MOLINA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
(dated June 3, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the FFY 2022-2025 Maui Transportation improvement Program
Revision #4 Administrative Modification which includes the Makawao Avenue
Pavement Reconstruction Phase 1 project,Federal-Aid ProjectSTP-0365(001).
NO. 22-157 - JORDAN MOLINA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
(dated June 9, 2022)
Transmitting a copy ofthe FFY 2022-2025 Maui Transportation Improvement Program
Revision #4 Administrative Modification, which includes the Papalaua Street Traffic
Signal Upgrade atWainee StreetProject,Federal-AidProjectSTP~3020(001).
- JOHN PELLETIER, CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated June 13, 2022)
NO. 22-158
Transmittinga copy of the grant modificationwith the State of Hawaii, Department of
the Attorney General for the Cybercrime Unit Enhancement grant in the amount of
$47,311.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 184
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 22, 2022)
NO. 22-159
Transmittinga copy of Contract Log No. 20-251 ModificationNo. 6 from the Stateof
Hawaii Executive Officeon Aging, forthe Aging & DisabilityResource Center, inthe
amount of $29,524.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated June 27, 2022)
NO. 22-160
Notifyingof anticipatedvoluntarycontributionsto be receivedfrom seniorsparticipating
in the Assisted Transportation Program, in the amount of $16,214, with no letterof
intent.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 22-161
(dated June 30, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Waterline Easement A, Honua'ulaA/VaileaWater Tank
Subdivision,TMK: (2)2-1-008:056 POR.
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCENO. 22-162
(dated June 30, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of Water Tank Lot, Wailea Upper Level Tank
Honua‘ulaAA/ailea Water Tank Subdivision,Lot 2, TMK: (2)2-1-008:056 POR.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated June 29, 2022)
NO. 22-163
Informing of the appointment of Chenoa ChristinaRanis to the Committee on the
Status of Women due to the resignationof Sheron Bissen.
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated June 30, 2022)
NO. 22-164
Informing of a vacancy on the Fire and Public Safety Commission due to the
resignationof Luke Makani Bailey,effectiveJune 30, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 185
NO. 22-165 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated June 30, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Public Works Commission due to the resignation of
Alberta de Jetley,effectiveJune 30, 2022.
NO. 22-166 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated July 5, 2022)
Informingofa vacancy on the Maui County CulturalResources Commission due tothe
resignationof Daniel Kanaheie, effectiveDecember 31,2021.
CHAIR LEE; Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
And discussion isnot allowed according to our Council Rules.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King,tofileall
items in the Consent Calendar. So, allthose in favor, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.CHAIR LEE: All"ayes".
So, we'lltake up the billsnow, beginning with 112.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 186
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with testimony on agenda item N. Bills.Just to
double-check. Chair, no individuals have indicated that they wish to sign up on any
bills in item N. But we will do a last call. Ifthere isanybody who wishes to testifyon
any items inagenda item N. Bills,please identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisisour last
call.
Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No objections.Chair.
CHAIR LEE: -to closingpublictestimony and accepting writtentestimony forthe bills?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO.__112_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, TO ESTABLISH THE PAY PLAN FOR A PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
AND A HAWAIIAN LANGUAGE COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST IN THE
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, ifthere are no objections,may 1 request the
Clerk also callup Bill113, 114, 115, and 116?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 187
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL N0.^^113__(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED OR DERELICT
VEHICLES REVOLVING FUND, EMERGENCY FUND
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 114 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 115 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 188
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 116 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1, FD2 (2022), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 112, 113, 114, 115, AND
116, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF
THE COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King,towaive
the Rules of the Council for the billsas stated. Any, any objections? I mean, any
discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. For Bill112, establishingthe pay
plan forthese positionswillallow us to finishthe hiringprocess as quicklyas possible.
For Bill13, thisisa housekeeping billto ensure thatthe approved amount inthe FY 23
Budget are reflectedin Appendix A, Part II. For Bill114, 115, and 116, these bills
amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget to appropriate additionalBond Funds forthe Office
of Council Services renovations,which are currentlyunderway. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion,please
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 189
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noesM .
motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 112, 113, 114, 115, AND 1160N FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to pass
Bills112 through 116 on firstreading.
Any discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. For Bill112, this billwould establish
a pay plan forthe two new Officeof Council Services positions:procurement specialist
and Hawaiian language communications specialistat the CR-1 level.Representatives
from the Office of Council Services are available to answer any questions Members
may have.
For Bill113, thisbillwould amend Appendix A, Part IIof the FiscalYear 2023 Budget
by adding an appropriationof $115,000 forequipment under Highway Beautification
and Disposal of Abandoned or DerelictVehicle Revolving Fund and decreasing the
Anticipated Revenues for FY 23 under Emergency Fund by $105,372. During the
FY 23 Budget deliberations,funding in the amount of 115,000 was approved for
equipment from the Highway BeautificationFund and the AnticipatedRevenues forthe
Emergency Fund were decreased. These changes were inadvertently not
incorporated intoAppendix A, Part II. These amendments do not affectthe total
operating budget for FY 23. Representatives from the Administration,Budget Director
Michele Yoshimura ison, ifMembers do have questions.
And forthe lastthree Bills,113, 114, and, sorry,114, 115 and 116, these billswould
amend Budget billAppendix C billand Bond Authorizationbillto the Officeof County
Council, Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan Area, and funding a projectdescriptionfor
the Office of Council Services office renovation in the amount of $301,045. The FY 22
Budget appropriation of $519,000 was an estimated cost by the architectfor the
project. The actual bid on the project was $830,000, which the Office of Council
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 190
Services was able to negotiate down to $820,045. Therefore, additionalfunds are
needed to execute the construction contract for this project. Again, representatives
from the Administration and the Office of Council Services are availableto answer any
questions thatthe Members may have. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Any questions? No questions. Ready forthe vote?
Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Member Sugimura, did you have your hand up? Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes
motion carries.
H .
Now, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Chair, consideration for Section L. It'sjustfour referrals.It'll
be fast.
CHAIR LEE: Section L.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Question. Do we know for sure that they're referralsor that no
one's going to tryto pass them on the floor?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, this is the resolutions. Let's see, we have one, two, three,four?
Members, any objectionsto dealing with these resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Paltin.
Weil, let'scallup the item by the Clerk. Clerk,callup the item please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 191
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding withtestimony on agenda item L. Resolutions.
Chair,no individualshas signed up totestifyon these items. Ifthere are any individuals
who want to testifyon items in agenda item L. Resolutions,please identifyyourself
now. This isour lastcallfortestimony on these items.
CHAIR LEE; Members, are there any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and accepting
writtentestimony forthe resolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Please proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutionsfor referral.The following
resolutionsare recommended forreferralto the followingCommittees as noted:
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-170
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF ANDREE-MICHELLE CONLEY-
KAPOI TO THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-170 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-171
URGING THE MAYOR TO CONDUCT OR
AUTHORIZE A COMPREHENSIVE FEASIBILITY
STUDY OF THE EMI WATER SYSTEM
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-171 be referredto the Agricultureand
Public Trust Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 192
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-172
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL AMENDING THE CRITERIA
FOR TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL USE
WITHIN THE A-1 AND A-2 APARTMENT
DISTRICTS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-172 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-173
APPOINTMENTS TO THE SOUTH MAUI
COMMUNITY PU\N ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-173 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any objectionsto any ofthese referrals,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. Do you have any more fastones?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We could tryJ. But wouldn't he take that up with-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, thatmight be more complicated.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Home. Home.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that'sit.Okay, everybody, ready to callita nightand then we're going to
recess thismeeting, reconvene. I'llsay itforthe record.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, before we-
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 193
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -recess, forthe, what isthat,CR 21, the Waipu'ilani
project,oh, sorry,22-61, can we justget one ofthe attorney'sto confirm that because
Sunday, July 17 isthe deadline,thatthe deadline would then be Monday, July 18?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, David is well aware. We've, we've researched this. David, please
explain.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ijustwant iton the record. Mahalo, Chair.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Okay. Chair and Vice-Chair. Chapter 1.04
of the County Code says that whenever a legaldeadline failson a Sunday or on a
holiday,thatthe deadline actuallymoves to the next workday. So, for a deadline that
was calculated for a Sunday, July 17, actual deadline in accordance with the Code,
would be Monday. July 18. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And justforthe record, while we have
Mr. Raatz on, that our Charter amendments-
CHAIR LEE: Could you explainthe deadlinesforthe Charter amendments?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And that's
under the jurisdictionof the Office of the County Clerk. I don't know ifthe Deputy
County Clerk wants to weigh in on that,but during recess, we discussed that as long
as finalaction is taken on second and finalreading of the resolutionsto proposed
Charter amendments earlynext week, the Officeofthe County Clerkwillhave sufficient
time to get the ballotsprintedforthe General Election.Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I sent a text to MPO Executive Directorjustto see how
long the 2:00 meeting would be, and ifshe has any information,but I haven't heard
back from her. As I said, the meeting was asked that we do itby State DOT, which
would allow us to get more funding. So, for me, it'simportant. And Iknow thattwo
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 194
other Members are also on the MPO. But all of us are on, you know, the Council and
we need to finishthe agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, itwould be helpfulifwe don'task too many questions. And then, if
we don't have too, ifwe hardly have any testimony, we should be able to get through
itin no time. But justin case, Iwould, 1would brown bag it,so we can work through
lunch,yeah. And then-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'llbuy. I'llbuy lunch.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, thatway we're sure to finishby 2:00.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, that'sthe goal. Isthat okay with the Members?
CHAIR LEE: That'sthe goal. Ithinkeverybody wants to get through itas soon as possible.
So, James, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,apologies. Just to clarify,when you do recess, thatthe
recess willbe for,thatyou'llcome back tothe same BlueJeans linkthatwe have posted
fortoday'smeeting. And the in-viewing,the in-personviewing,and testimony location
is also the same, the Council Chambers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other questions or comments before I-
Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, just wanted to double-check and see what time we are
recessing to on Monday.
CHAIR LEE: 9:00.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 9:00. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, Members, ready?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. Last thing. When you say to brown
bag itand work through lunch, we're not saying that we're going to keep staffhere,
cause they need at least a 45-minute break according to the collectivebargaining
agreement, yeah?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 195
CHAIR LEE: Well, of course we'llgive them thatoption. But Ithink they themselves would
liketo finishthisup too. We'llplay-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Chair,it'srequiredunder the CBA.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. That's fine. I,I'm sure it's,there'ssome flexibilitythere since we kept
them tillalmost 1:00 inthe morning the lasttime. So, thatwas, that was stretchingit
way beyond lunch, a lunch break.
So, Members, fortonight,Iam going callon Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Just wanted to reiteratethat I had already
previously made a doctor's appointment for 8:30 Monday morning, thinking that we
didn'tmeet till10. But because we're meeting at nine, Ijustwanted to letyou know
that I'llprobably be lateforthatmeeting. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We'lltryand accommodate you by takingallthe easy ones firstifwe
can, ifwe can. Now, we want as many Members here to vote as possible.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithink,Chair,we might actuallybe startingwithtestimony. Isthat
correct,Mr. Krueger?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; -stillopen.
CHAIR LEE: We might-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You might justmiss some testimony.Member Kama. We'lltake
notes foryou.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any lastcomments or questions? Okay, thismeeting of
July 15, 2022-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Sinenci had his hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh. my apologies, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 196
CHAIR LEE: Did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: We justclosed testimony on the resolutionsthatwe took up
yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Everything else isstillopen.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We cannot close testimony on the items we haven't addressed yet,yeah. That's
the new law,yeah. And I'mgoing to,I'mgoing to tease Member King tillthe restof her
days about thislaw. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Why me? Ididn'tcome up. Ididn'tcome up with it.
CHAIR LEE: Iknow. Iknow, but itwas HSAC.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, itwas one of my colleagues in HSAC.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, your colleaguesat HSAC. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's right,you have to liveitdown. Kelly.
CHAIR LEE: July 15 meeting of the County Council 2022 is going to be recessed. We are
recessing ituntilMonday, 9:00 a.m., using the same link.The same you can, one was
the link,and what else did you say, James?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, the same, the same in-personviewing location,the Council
Chambers.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, the same in-personviewing location,right.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. and then justto clarify-
CHAIR LEE: Anything, anything else?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -Monday, isJuly 18.
CHAIR LEE: And itisJuly 18, Monday. Anything else Ishould say before Igavel out?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Question, Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 197
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so for claritythen, in case people are listening,
sounds likewe're going to be takingthe heavier items on Monday at 9, or from 9:00.
And everyone who testifiedagainstorforthe Waipuii [sic],Hale Waipu'ilani,sorryabout
that,project,or the EMI Water Authority,and what was the big one? The other-
CHAIR LEE: Good, very good point.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: --outdoor lighting,they cannot, they cannot testifyagain?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. That isa very good point. Ishould say that,in case somebody's still
listening,thatwhomever testifiedtoday would not be able to testifytomorrow, unless
it'son a new item, okay?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Only new items.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Monday.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, not tomorrow, I meant Monday. And then, however, ifa person didn't
testifytoday, they are welcome to testifyon Monday on any of the items. Okay, so I
hope, I hope that,ifpeople ask you questions about that,you can explain itto them
thatthey’vealready testifiedon the various items. They can only testifyon items that
they didn'ttestifyon today. Alright? Did Imiss anything,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot,thismeeting isin recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:15 P.M.,AND WAS RECONVENED
ON JULY 18, 2022, AT 9:04 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR
MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of July 15, please reconvene. Today is Monday
July 18 and itisapproximately 9:04 a.m.
Before we take rollcall,Ihave a couple of announcements. Number one, those who
are watching thisbroadcast,please turnto channel 4, 54, channel 54. Channel 53, our
normal channel, willbe available sometime latertoday. But for now, please use
channel 54 to watch the Akaku programming. That's one.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 198
Number two isour greetingfortoday isfrom the Congo. Africa.And itismbote, mbote.
So, mbote to ailof you, Members.
And Mr. Clerk,may we have rollcall?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with rollcall.Members participatingfrom non-
public locationsshould state who. ifanyone, except children,ispresent with them as
part of roilcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci? Let's come back to him. Ithink he might be frozen fornow.
Maybe he’s going to restart.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and mbote, Madam Chair, and my colleagues, and
everyone else joining us for our recessed Council meeting this morning. I am
transmittingfrom the Council Chambers, along with my colleague Member Sugimura,
as well as the Clerk and the Clerk's staff,and members of the publicwho have joined
us inthe Chambers thismorning. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha and mbote. Chair and fellow Councilmembers. For the
record, oh, happy Monday. For the record, I'm broadcasting this morning from my
office,home office,with my staffGina Young. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka. Mbote, everyone. And Iam broadcasting from
my home officetoday inSouth Maui. We have reportsof no testifiersatthe South Maui
District Office. And there is no one in the room with me at this moment. Looking
forward to gettingthrough our business today in record time.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 199
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Aloha, Chair,community members, Councilmember. Mbote
to allof you. Iam home alone in my workspace on Lanai. There are no testifiersat
the Lanai DistrictOfficeand I'm here and ready to work. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka and mbote kakou. Broadcasting liveand
directfrom the Lahaina DistrictOffice here in sunny Lahaina Town, where we have
lightand variablewinds, and surfinthe 3-6 footplus range. And a good time was had
by allout there. Thank you. No testifiersat the Lahaina DistrictOffice.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Mbote everybody. I'm here inthe Council Chambers with
Member Molina and the hardworking Clerk'sstaff.Appreciate you being here. And we
have testifiersinthe Chambers. I'm glad to see testifiershere in person and looking
forward to a very productivemeeting. Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: PresidingOfficerPro Tempore Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka kakou my Molokai nui ahina. I'm at
the Molokai District Office alone and in the office. There are no testifiershere. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Mbote everyone and lookingforward to,hopefully,a quick,efficient,and amiable
meeting.
Yes, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 200
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sorry, Iforgotto mention Iwasn't alone. With me, EA Angela
Lucero, and Lahaina DistrictOffice staffChristian Balagso.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Itoo am home alone in my office,and lookingforward to working
with allof you today.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. My apologies. Forgot to
mention that there are no testifiers at the districtofficein Paia. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thank you. Any other comments before Icallon Mr. Clerk?
Ifnot,Mr. Clerk,please bringus up to date.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We, wellMembers, as you know, we voted on the Consent Calendar, we voted
on the, the ceremonial resolution,and we voted on the five bills.And now, we’re about
to take up the restof the agenda. But of course, we willneed to begin with testimony.
And the Clerk willbring us up to date as to where we are.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, KELLY T. KING, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER NATALIE A. KAMA.
(Councilmember Kama was not present during rollcall;however, she arrivedat the
meeting at 9:26 a.m.)
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,justforthe record,there are eightMembers present,one
Member excused. A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council. For
the record,Iam Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also presentfrom the Officeof
the County Clerk are LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana and
Dell Yoshida.
And joiningthe meeting from the Department of CorporationCounsel isCorporation
Counsel Moana Lutey.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 201
Chair, at thistime,the Council has closed testimony and dealtwith the items relating
to these items on the, these sections on the agenda; ceremonial resolutions,setting
the Consent Calendar, the Consent Calendar, item L. Resolutions, and item N. Bills.
Chair,at thistime,shallwe proceed with testimony on any remaining agenda item?
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk,can you explainto the publicabout the testimony today? Ifthey have
testifiedon items on the agenda on Friday,thatthey will,they'rewelcome to testifyon
other items,but not the same items. Can you explainthat to the public?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair,that'scorrect.Today's meeting isa reconvening of
a recessed meeting from lastweek Friday,July 15, therefore itisthe same meeting.
So, anybody who testifiedon items on Friday cannot again testifyon those items. But
they are welcome to testifyon new items ifthey so choose. And of course, we'llalso
welcome any new testifiers.
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Any questions.Members? Okay, let'sbegin with testi--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Our Deputy Clerk said test,we're
going to open testimony on allremaining agenda items. Are we taking them up in
sections fortestimony, or are we justopening up allthe sections one time?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,at thistime,we were going to cal!testimony if,similarto
how we did on Friday. Ifanybody wanted tojusttestifyinthe morning on any remaining
agenda item,and then do itby section. But ifthe body strictlywants to do itjust by
section, we can do that as well.
CHAIR LEE; Members, you have comments? Ithinkit'lljust be easier ifwe justgo through
allthe testifiers.They can say whether they want to testifynow or when the item comes
up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Ah, Chair?
CHAIR LEE; We asked them thatat the lastmeeting, 1believe.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 202
Yeah, we, so under the new Sunshine Law
requirement,where we open up testimony at the beginning ofthe meeting,we didthat
on Friday.And now, we’re requiredto open up testimony beforeeach sectionor item.
So, Ithinkthat'show we were supposed to proceed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR LEE: Well, my understanding isthat people have a choice, when they sign up to
testify,they can testifynow, even though theiritem has not come up yet,because this
issimply a continuationof Friday’smeeting.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We, we closed public testimony for the beginning
portion.That was on Friday.We completed thatalready. Now we're on sections.Now
we’re only on testimony before each section. The choice . .. Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Idon't.Idon’t recallthat. Perhaps, Mr. Clerk,you can enlightenus on exactly
what has, what transpiredon Friday and what willtake place today?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the body didn't,Isuppose the body didn'tclose,didn'tdo
any formal closing of testimony when we did that big period of testimony at the
beginning of the meeting on Friday just because that would also resultin closing
testimony for all items and that's not what the body, that would not have been
consistentwith the Sunshine Law. But again, itisthe body's decision. Ifthe body just
wants to do testimony by section at thispoint,it’sokay to do that. But itisalso okay
forthe body to take up any testifierwho wants to testifynow, and then any testifierwho
wants to testifybefore itssection. They can also stillsplititat thistime. It'spurelythe
body’s decision.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Iwould liketo have Mr. Raatz’ opinionon this.Because my understanding
is that people have a choice. We, the only testimony we dosed on Friday was
testimony on the resolution,the ceremonial resolution,and the other items we took
action on, which were the Consent Calendar, settingof the Consent Calendar, and
passing of the fivebills.Those items are no longer availableto testifyon because we
disposed of them. Allother items are open, so people should have the opportunityto
say [would liketo testifyrightnow on an item that is not before us, thathas not been
called up yet. Or they have the opportunityto say Iwould liketo wait untilthatitem is
called up. Ithink that choice is up to the testifier.And that ismy recollectionof the
interpretationas explained by David Raatz.
David, are you on the call?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, thank you. Chair. And again, we're
under a new Sunshine Law that’sbeen ineffectforjustover a week or so. We’ve been
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 203
in regular contact with the Office of Information Practices to try to understand the
nuances of this amended statute. The statute itselfjust says that Sunshine Law
boards, includingthe County Councils, and itsCommittees, can't require that all
testimony be atthe beginning ofthe,ofthe meeting, which the Council has done inthe
past. So, OIP has suggested thattestimony needs to be taken up eitherby item,or by
section,or both. Or you can exercise eitherofthose functionsduring a meeting before
you begin deliberationson a particularitem or sectionof items. There's no requirement
to allow testifiersto testifyat the beginning of the meeting. So, that'sa courtesy that
the Council allowed at the July 15 meeting. So, in essence, we, we agree with the
Deputy County Clerk's interpretation,and apologize for any confusion, again as we
continue to work out the nuances ofthisnew law. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, ifwe're going to open up
testimony now, since we're no longeratthe beginning ofthe meeting, because we took
action on section L and section N, as well as the other sections the Chair described,
Mr. Raatz. And so, ifwe're going to startwith section J, but we're going to open up
testimony on other items not insectionJ, are we bringingup sectionJ and K and M at
the same time?
CHAIR LEE: Your question isforthe Clerk?
Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. I'm not sure ifIshould respond, or if?
CHAIR LEE: Who are you asking? Me? Cause my opinion is-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mr. Raatz. Mr. Raatz. I asked Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Raatz. Did you hear the question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Thank you. Chair and Vice-Chair. Again, we
agree withthe Deputy County Clerk,thatitisthe body’s choice. Ifyou want tocontinue
to allow testimony on allitems thathave not already been dealtwith in deliberations,
you can do that. Ifyou want to wait and take up testimony on each item,or each
sectionof items,you can do thatas well. So, thatthe body does have discretioninour
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 204
view, again, based on our consultationwith Office of InformationPractices,which
administers the State'sopen government laws. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Raatz.
CHAIR LEE: -Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sounds-
CHAIRLEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Appreciatethatresponse. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. My, my preference would be since we have,
today isour deadline for a number of items, Ithinkwe should just,you know, take up
those items, and whatever testimony on those items first,because ifwe don't get
through the items with today deadline, then we have a problem. Whereas, everything
else thatdoesn't have a deadline of today, we can end up deferringat the end of the
thing, ifwe're not done by likewhatever time. I mean, hopefully before tomorrow
morning. But we got deadlines today. So, Ithinkwe shouldn'tgoof around, and we
should justfollowthe schedule thatwe were on yesterday. Ithinkthere'sJ, K, M, and
O. Idon'tknow ifwe can take things out of order and justhear the ones with deadlines
first?But we got to get through those deadlines, or else there'llbe trouble.
CHAIR LEE: That is true. Member Paltin. But remember, ifeverybody took care of their
business in Committee, we would not have to do Committee work at the Council
meeting. In the interestof fairnessto people who cannot stay forseveral hours, and
who can only provide testimony now, and Idon't know who they are,really,justinthe
interestof fairness,Iwas recommending thatwe affordthose signed up today to have
the same opportunityas those who had on Friday. But ifthe body prefersto proceed
and require that the testifierswho have signed up wait untiltheiritem is called,of
course, five votes willmake a big difference,and we willproceed that way. So,
Members, anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 205
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't understand what you said. Everybody did have the
same opportunityto sign up on Friday,whether they took itor not? Everyone could
have signed up on Friday and testifiedfirst.It'sjustthe volume of people thatwanted
to testify,not us that stopped them from testifying.So, it'snot likewe're saying you
couldn'ttestifyon Friday. Everybody had thatopportunity.We're, itwasn't us taking
that away.
CHAIR LEE: Right.But since it'sthe same meeting,yeah, it'sthe exact same meeting. Other
people probably, probably thought, oh, I couldn'ttestifyon Friday, now I have an
opportunityto testifyon Monday, you know.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: But again,I,too,do not want to bickeron thisforever. So, but Ido want to hear,
give an opportunityto those who want to say something to please feelfree to say
something.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Idon'tknow, ifwe're going to take thisup in
sections,which I'm good with as far as testimony, I don't know thatwe want to pull
certainthingsout ofthe sectionsbecause thatgets reallyconfusing. So, ifwe're going
to starton sections that are, that have deadlines, my suggestion would be to starton,
justgo ahead withthe,you know, the firstsectionthat has something with a deadline,
which Ithink isprobably J, since there'sa communication there relatedto one of the
Charter amendments. And then,justtake up testimony,go through those items. Then
take up testimony on section K, then go through those items. But that,Ithinkthatwill
get us to where we need to be quicker.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Itwillget us to where we need to be quicker. But I'mjustsaying, italso
precludes the, some members of the public from testifying,ifthey, ifthey'reon a
schedule themselves. Okay, but I'm not, I'm not opposed to doing that. Let's have
other people have a chance to say something.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Chair. Ijustwant to get started.We have people inthe
chambers rightnow and there may be some parking issues for some. So, whatever
your callis,but let'sget started.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, hopefully,yeah, but hopefullythey'rehere forwhat we callup.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 206
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. And I'm sure Mr. Raatz, or Mr. Krueger can alertus if
there are any concerns as itrelatesto Sunshine, as we progress. So, anyway, that's
justmy take on this.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, we have people here waitinginthe chambers, and
I would liketo provide them the same opportunitythat we look like,we, when we
conduct our meetings. And ifthey want to testifyon whatever item they'refor,they're
here for,please letthem. And then,we can proceed with our agenda. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Unfortunately,Member Sugimura, itseems likeonly you and Ihave that
opinion. And itseems likethe other six would liketo proceed with item J, and take
testimony on item J at thistime, and tryto move through the, especially the more
controversialitems, as soon as possible. Because that way we can ensure that we’ll
finishby, hopefully2:00.
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, today was not a day that any of
us had planned to do a recessed meeting, and so there are many of us that already
have schedules. Ihave a flightto catch. I'mgoing to have to be on the road by 10:00,
and then I'mgoing to be on a plane from 11:00 to at least11:30. And then, I'lllikelybe
on the road again. And I'm going to be on my phone and I'm going to try my best to
participate.
But I agree with Member Paltinthat there are four items that have deadlines, 22-61,
22-119, 22-144 and 22-165. And I,and forthe most part those were the items that
receivedmost ofthe testimony,and Ithinkwe should justtake up those items. And if
we're not able to finish before 2:00 when three Members have a meeting thatwas also
scheduled fortoday, that they hadn't planned to have a conflictfor,then allthe items
reallyinthe,that'sgoing to be referred,or that have firstreading don’thave a deadline
associated with them. So, the committee reports,most of them, only 22-61 has a
deadline. And 1welcome anyone to correctme. But Ithink we should just take up
those four items, make sure we take action on those four. And then that way ifwe
don'tget through it,at leastwe meet our deadline and we can adjourn and table the
rest.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are you agreeable to thatsuggestion? Take up the four items first?
Okay. But first,we have to take testimony.
Yes, Mr. Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 207
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Thank you, Chair. I'magreeable. I,Ihave 22-119. However,
connected to 22-119 is County Communication 22-167. We can consider that too.
Thank you.
(Councilmember Kama arrivedat the meeting at 9:26 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We're taking up a long time now everybody, justgoing around incircles.
Let the record show thatMember, Pro Temp Kama ishere. Okay, now, Mr. Clerk,have
you been listeningto the items that,okay there'san echo. Why is there an echo?
Okay. Mr. Clerk,the Members, the majorityof the Members appear to want to callup
the four items as mentioned earlier.Did you take note of that?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. Our understanding isthatthatwould be Committee
Report 22-61, County Communication 22-167, Resolutions 22-119, 22-144, and
22-165.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, let'stake them up inthe order,the alphabeticalorder,okay? So, we
need to stillcall,allow testimony. My understanding iswe stillneed to allow testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Yes, Chair. So, willlbe opening testimony only on
rightnow County Communication 22-167?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. So, proceeding with testimony, with the presentationof
testimony on County Communication 22-167. Members ofthe publicmay testifyinthe
council chamber, at courtesy testimony sitesor remotely through the informationlisted
on the meeting agenda. Individualsinthe chamber may sign up totestifywiththe staff
member located atthe desk inthe eighth-floorlobby. Individualsat courtesy testimony
sitesmay sign up with staffat the site.Individualsparticipatingremotely may sign up
in the meeting chat. Ifyou are connected to the meeting by phone, you willbe
automaticallyadded to the testifierlist.Individualsconnected by phone are currently
on mute and will be unmuted when itis their time to testify.Individualsconnected by
video conference should keep both theirvideos and microphones off,and should turn
them on only when itistheirtime to testify.
Individualsmay testifyfor three minutes with up to one minute to conclude per item.
When testifying,please state your name and the name of any organization you
represent,as well as the items on which you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 208
the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.Individualsmay also be disconnected from the
meeting at any time forbreaking decorum. At thistime,we willbe taking testimony on
County Communication 22-167 only.
Chair,the firstindividualwe have signed up to testifyon CC 22-167 is Shay Chan
Hodges.
MS. SHAY CHAN HODGES (testifyingon County Communication 22-167):
Aloha. My name isShay Chan Hodges, and Iwould liketo address some of the issues
raisedby Water Deputy DirectorShayne Agawa. On Friday,he compared the goals
of a Community Water Authorityto the purchase of a car, raisingconcerns about its
monthly payments, maintenance, and operationalcosts. His analogy doesn’t quite fit
because the East Maui Water Authoritywould not be purchasing the aqueduct, only
requestingStatewater leases.And DLNR has clearlystatedthata County entitywould
not be charged forthose leases, so there isno cost foracquisition.
There isa partof Mr. Agawa's analogy that'sworth lookingat,however. As we consider
whether to take on the maintenance and gas forour free car from DLNR, we need to
remember thatwe are currentlypaying Mahi Pono and EMI to use thatsame car,which
EMI has been rentingfrom the State fordecades. And yes, the County has been
paying the same rentalrateforthe car since the 70s.
Infact,on July8, 1976, my husband's father,Tony Hodges, wrote to BLNR to object
to the differencebetween the pricepaid to the State by A&B forthe water leases and
the pricepaid to A&B by the County forthe same water. At the time,EMI was paying
the State .0018 cents per thousand gallonsand sellingitto the County for6 cents per
thousand gallons.The Statewas collectingabout $160,000 a year on the four permits.
IfEMI/Mahi Pono were paying the same amount forthe four leases intoday’sdollars,
thatwould be over $700,000. Thus, they are paying 70 percent less for the leases
today than what A&B paid 45 years ago.
As I'msure you allknow, DLNR ishiringconsultantscurrentlyto assess the value of
the water,which isn'teasy because it'sa publictrustand not a commodity. Since the
State hasn'tadjusted the rates in halfa century,itis very likelythat even before
attempting to appraise the water's value, DLNR willat least triplewhat they charge
EMI/Mahi Pono to bring itin linewith today'sdollars.
I hope the Department of Water Supply is preparing accurate projectionson the
County's futurecosts when Mahi Pono passes on those increases to the County, and
when the Water Department must pass on the higher wholesale cost to farmers,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 209
ranchers, and other users. Those projections should assume that Mahi Pono will
consider what the market willbear. The County pays 28 cents to Maui Land and Pine
and 50 cents to Wailuku Water Company, currently,forevery thousand gallons.
So, back to our car. We're currentlypaying EMt/Mahi Pono to use a car thatthey are
rentingfrom the State. And we can'tcontrolwhen or how we use It,or itscondition
now or inthe future.Alternatively,we can directlyrentthe car at no costfrom the State.
And since we only need it17 percent of the time, we can Uber or Turo itforthe restof
the time and use thatmoney to put ina new engine and improve the gas mileage, make
itsafer and sometimes even use itto drive our grandma to the doctor.
Iemailed you folksa Powerpoint. I'llfinishup. Iemailed you a Powerpoint thismorning
that shows thataftergross income and expenses thatensure good care of the system,
we can have between $1.3 and $8 million in net revenues before we even access
Federal grants, or financing,or other investment. This seems likea more fiscally
responsible plan than the current one of taking on unpredictableextracost under Mahi
Pono's control. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCiLMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. This isa, not a question forour testifier.
Sorry. Can we keep our questions, Councilmembers, to 30 seconds likewe did last
time? Itwas prettyfastthatway. That'sall.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Okay, 30 seconds. Any clarifyingquestions.Members? Ifnot,thank you
very much.
May we have the next testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently do not have any individualssigned up to
testifyon thisitem,but we do have individualswho have phoned inthat Ido not know
what items they are testifyingon. May I please, ifit'sokay. I'dliketo callthem and
verifythe items on which they willbe testifying.
CHAIR LEE; Proceed with that.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Individualcallinginfrom the phone number ending with 9711
what item are you testifyingon?
MR. DAVE DELEON: Resolution 22-119 and 22-144.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 210
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay, thank you. We willadd you to the testifierlistand we’ll
callyou at thattime. Thank you.
Individualcallingin from the phone number ending with 6659, what items are you
testifyingon today?
MS. ROBIN KNOX; I'mtestifyingon 22-167 and 22-61.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Thank you. We willadd you to the testifierlistand we'll
callyou at the appropriatetime.
Chair, oh, apologies, Ibelieve one of the items she called was, isthisitem. So, we will
allow thatindividualto testify.You may testifyon only County Communication 22-167.
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-167):
Mahalo. This isRobin Knox, and Ijustwant to say that Iam in support of 22-167. I
agree with the priortestifierthatthismakes more financialsense, and more sense from
a water securitystandpointthan what we're doing rightnow. That's all.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members, forclarification?
Ifnot, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon
County Communication 22-167. But we willproceed last-
MS. KNOX: Oh. What is it. . .
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Imuted them. So, we willproceed with a lastcall.
Ifthere are any other individuals,oh, apologies. 1 believeTom Croly wants to testify
on County Communication 22-167. Please proceed.
MR. TOM CROLY (testifying on County Communication No. 22-167):
Thank you. Chair. Tom Croly. I'mjusttryingto stay in touch, stay with the procedure
and 1wanted to testifyat the beginning of each of these items. My only comments on
this is,I can see that, that we don't have allof our ducks in a row rightnow in creating
thiswater authority,right? The idea iswe'llcreate the water authoritythat allows us to
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 211
apply forthe water leases,and then we'llfigureout how we would distributethatwater,
or how we would negotiateitand so forth.And Ireallydo thinkthat,thatthisisnot a
fullythought-out proposal.
Someone has kind of come up with a scenario thatdown the road,thiscould,thiscould
allwork. But there'sso many pieces ofthispuzzle that have not yet been, been worked
out. And a lotofthe testimony thatyou had on Fridaywere from people who trulywere
misled by the idea thatthey were going to get theirUpcountry water meter, or thatthe
County would now be in charge of the distributionand of the water that'scoming from
the East Maui IrrigationSystem, none ofwhich ispartof thisproposal.
So, I,Ireallythinkthatthiswould be confusing ifitwent to the ballotin November. I
fullyunderstand the idea thatpeople say we have to do thisstep firstbefore we can do
these other things,so let'sjam thisthing through at thismoment. But Ithink it'sill-
conceived at this moment to push this item through before we trulyknow what this
water authoritywould be able to do. And we would avoid some fightsdown the road,
ifwe would take our time with this. So, I do understand this isthe lastday to do this
forthisyear,but I'dratherdo itrightintwo years, ratherthan push itthrough rightnow.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Members, are there any clarifyingquestions?
Yes, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Croly. Mahalo foryour
testimony. Do you not thinkthat'sinaccurateto claim thatthe testifierson Fridaywere
misled and thought that they were going to get Upcountry water meters when
semanticallywhat they consistentlysaid was thatthey wanted water to be the public
trustitis,not ina foreigncorporation'shands and controlledby a foreigncorporation?
That's what I heard consistently.So, do you not thinkyou're being inaccurate right
now?
MR. CROLY: 1thinkthatwhat you juststated ishighlyinaccurate,okay. We could get intoa
long discussion about it,but we won't,okay. But what you justsaid,what you justsaid
was not accurate to the current situation from-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Croly?
MR. CROLY: -what isbeing proposed, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Time's up. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 212
CHAIR LEE: Well, now time's up. Thank you. Any more questions? Ifnot,are there any
more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisToni Eaton.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Eaton?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Toni Eaton, Isee thatyou'reconnected to the meeting. You're
muted on your end. Icannot unmute you.
MS. TONI EATON (testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-167):
Okay. Okay. Sorry. Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Members. I'mtestifyingagainst 167. That
167 when Shayne Agawa mentioned thatthe water was not a publictrust,he was very
misinformed. And it'svery dishearteningforhim to be the Deputy Director.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Ms. Eaton, can you turn your video off,because you're breaking up.
You're breaking up. Can you turnyour video off?
MS. EATON: Is itbetter? Is that better?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, itis.
MS. EATON: Okay. So, I,Ijustwanted to read something from ... in order forthe State to
be admitted, in order forthe Territoryof Hawaii to be admitted to the State there was,
the Legislaturehad adopted thatallof the lands owned by the government was to be
held ina publictrust.So that,they came up with fivepublictrustpurposes. So, one of
them isfor the support of public schools and other public educational institutionsfor
the betterment of the conditions of Native Hawaiians as defined by the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act of 1920, and development, and farm, and homeownership as
widespread a basis as possible for making public improvements and the provision of
lands for public use. So, in nowhere inthat did itsay thatwater isto be considered a
commodity.
Now, allpublicresources according to the Constitution,Article11, Section 7, says "all
publicnaturalresources are held inthe trustby the State forthe benefitofthe people".
So, Mr. Agawa's thinkingthat our water isa commodity that can be sold. That isnot
true. The, the Mahi Pono, EMI, they don't even pay forthe water. They pay forthe
leases. And so, you know, the testifierbefore said that,you know, let'swait two years.
We don't have two years. Ifthe leases are issued, it'sgoing to be 30 years. We're all.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 213
we're not going to be here. You know, that,that'sway too longforus towaittogetour^
our publictrustand our naturalresources back inour hands.
And also,the Supreme Court inthe Waiahole Case saidthatthe publictrustpurposes
have priorityover privatecommercial uses, and they do notenjoy the same protection
as the publictrust. Off-stream diverterswho seek to use water for theirprivate
commercial gain have the burden ofjustifyingproposed uses inlightofthe protected
publicrightsinthe resource. So, so these guys, yes they did the FEIS, but,Imean
nothingwas proven inthere. They have more resources thatthey could use, which
they're not utilizingat this point. They've got the groundwater that they can use.
They've got lands withinthe,between the lease area of Huelo and, and Kamole Weir,
which istheirproperty.They have not exercised theirrightsto use theirlands. Allthey
want is the free water. And so, I,I support the Resolution 119, and the 167 is,is
useless. But that'sall.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltinhas a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1was justwondering,didyou read 167? It's
kind of just some verbiage changes. And itseemed more thatyou were testifying
againstMr. Agawa's testimony ratherthan the substance of 167?
MS. EATON: Yeah, I was testifyingmore against the community, the, the yeah, the
communication. That's,that'swhat Iwas testifying,yeah. And 167 plays a roleinthat
though, right?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. We've reached the end ofthatone.
Member Sinenci, and then Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, Ididn'thave any questions forthe testifier.But Idid
want to make mention that we did thank her for the support from the Board of Water
Supply of the water authority.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Dovetailing offof Member Paltin's
question. Ms. Eaton, mahalo for your testimony this morning. There are three
amendments, four amendments inthatCounty Communication. And itchanged itto
water, from Water System to Water Authorities,adds "collective",and adds fourother
positions,grant writers,liaison,technical analyst. So, those three positionsafter
administrators. And then, adds grammatical corrections. So, are you testifyingin
support or againstthose amendments?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 214
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Eaton?
MS. EATON: Sorry,I,sorry,Iapologize. Iam insupport of those amendments.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
MS. EATON: So, Iam insupport of 167.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Easton. Mahalo. Chair.
MS. EATON: And one more thing Ihave to mention. Although Iam a member on the Board
of Water Supply, I am testifyingon my behalf. I'm sorry, I didn'tmention that in the
beginning.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any more questions? Ifnot, may we have the next
testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, no one else has signed up to testifyon County
Communication 22-167, so we willdo a lastcall. Ifthere are any individualswho want
to testifyon thisitem, please identifyyourselfnow. Again, lastcall.Chair, no one has
indicatedthatthey would liketo testifyon County Communication 22-167.
MR. NORMAN FRANCO (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-167):
!would liketo testify.Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Hello?
MR. FRANCO: Iwould liketo testify.
CHAIR LEE: Can you stateyour name please,forthe record.
MR. FRANCO: Norman Franco.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Franco, please proceed. You have three minutes.
MR. FRANCO: Okay. I'm a former member of the Maui Board of Water Supply. And this
whole issue came about because we were asked to come up with a plan ...the water
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 215
usage plan thatwas worked on by the Board of Water Supply forover fiveyears. And
part of the process we had to go to the differentcommunities and talkto the people,
and became evident that the Board of Water Supply didn'thave the capabilityto
respond to the needs of the various communities, especially on East Maui, where
they'recompeting interestsinthe use of water.
That was aggravated when Mahi Pono became on the scene buying up A&B's ag lands.
We triedto communicate with them. Allwe got isa letterfrom Mahi Pono saying that
ifyou don'tget the leases,thisisgoing tojeopardizethe people Upcountry from getting
theirwater. Ithought thatwas prettyheavy handed. And atthat point,we decided that
maybe inthe best interestof the publicthatwe form a TIG. And inthe TIG report,we
prettymuch addressed allthe issues and concerning the one about the cost to the
County. Ifyou read page 70 to 71, itstatesthatthisis going to be an asset, and not
something that'sgoing to impact negativelyto the County of Maui.
So, Ienvisionthe Water Authorityto be a policy-making organization,bringingin allof
the differentelements of the community, instead of just one foreigncorporationthat
dictatesto us how we're going to get our water. And thisreallyirritatesme thatthis
can happen. And surelyknowing the trackrecord of Mahi Pono in other locations,we
are ina very bad positionifwe allow these people to get the State leases.
And Ijustwant to say thatfrom experience, Ican say thisisthe only course of action
we should take to protectthe publicinterest,which istheirwater, which isthe lifeof the
land. We need water foreverything. And it'svery importantthat we take action now
and not wait two years to figureout allthe mechanisms that can be done inthe course
of gettingthose State leases. And that'sprioritynumber one. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Franco.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, no one else has identifiedthemselves as wishing to testify
on County Communication 22-167, but we willdo lastcallagain. Anybody wishing to
testifyon thisitem, please identifyyourself now. Again, lastcall.Chair, no one else
has identifiedthemselves as wishing to identifyon thisitem.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closing testimony on this item and to accepting
writtentestimony intothe record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member, Imean not Member, but Mr. Clerk, please callup the item.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 216
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with County Communication 22-167.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-167 - SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated July 7, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-119, CD1, FD1, a proposed
FD2 version, entitled"PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE REVISED CHARTER
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH MAUI COUNTY
COMMUNITY WATER AUTHORITIES AND AN EAST MAUI REGIONAL
COMMUNITY BOARD".
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,Chair, may I
please request thatthisitem be taken up atthe same time as Resolution 22-119, CD1,
FD1?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto taking both of them up rightnow?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Could you callup the other item,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on Resolution 22-119, CD1,
FD1. At thistime,members of the publicmay testifyon thisresolutiononly. The first
person we have signed up on thisitem isShay Chan-Hodges.
MS. CHAN-HODGES: Sorry, Idon'tneed to testifyagain. Thank you. My testimony forthe
other item is fine.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 217
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testifyis Shekinah
Cantere, to be followed by the individualcallinginfrom the phone number ending with
these lastfour digits,9711.
She's inthe chambers, Chair. She's coming down to the podium now.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. SHEKINAH CANTERE (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha. One request realquick. Could Itestifyon CR 22-61 atthe same time,please?
Okay, aloha kakahiaka. Chair and Councilmembers. My name isShekinah Cantere.
I'vebeen a resident in Kihei since Iwas fiveyears old. Itaught Hawaiian Studies at
Kamalii Elementary School forfouryears. I'mnow currentlyself-employed. Iam also
a wifeand a mother ofthreegirls.Today, I'llbe testifyingon supportingResolution22-
119.
Isupport Resolution22-119, because Ibelieveour water should be inthe hands ofour
community. E ola wai,water islife.Iknow majorityof you here support thisresolution
going onto the November ballotforthe people of Maui County to get a chance to vote
on it.
For those three Members who have voted no to this,Iask thatyou please reconsider
and listento ailof the voices of our community. Please remember thatyou work for
the people. And we the people of Maui County have put our trustinallof you to be
making decisions that willnot only manage our community, but also help us thrive.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions forthe testifier,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -person signed up to testifyisthe individualcallinginfrom the
phone number ending with these lastfour digits,9711. To be followedby Tom Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 218
MR. DAVE DELEON (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Aloha. Thank you for this opportunity to speak in opposition to the proposed
amendment. My name isDave Deleon. I'mtestifyingas a Haiku residentand property
owner. The proposal that'sbefore the Council appears to be rushed in an effortto
forestallthe State issuance of 30-year water lease to A&B/Mahi Pono partnership.
As Councilmember Sugimura recentlypointed out ina, ina statement, ifthisproposal
passes, the publicwillbe asked to endorse a proposal forwhich there has been no
due diligence. This proposal would resultin a massive addition to the County's
responsibilitieswithout any grounding in whether the County is capable of the
proposed undertaking,or without any sense of what itwould cost the taxpayers and
the water consumers. Without that information, how are the voters supposed to make
an informed decision?
My familydepends on water from the EMI system, and especiallyintimes of drought.
Over the lastthree decades I've lived in Haiku, I'vewatched the localclimate grow
drier.Lastyear's,lastwinter'stwo-months drought was reallybad. For about 60 days,
no, there was no rain whatsoever. Itwas so bad the County had to truck water into
Nahiku. When Nahiku goes dry,you know something's up. What that is,isa change
in the wind pattern,itproduces less rainfall.There's another apparent impact, this is
another apparent impact of climate change.
Changing, changing who's in charge of the watershed willnot change that fact,but
might make itmore difficultforthe community toadapt to the changing situation.Here's
some other thoughts on the subject. No knowledgeable person I know of has
confidence thatthe County willbe able to meet the responsibilitiesthat thisproposal
lays out. The EMI system isboth massive and irreplaceable.Willthe County reallybe
able to acquire and properlymaintain it?
The privately-ownedEMI system has successfullybeen providing Upcountry Maui with
itsmain water source at a nominal price for the last60 years. Our community has
been able to depend on it.Why isthatno longer a reallygood deal? Maui isalready
an incrediblyexpensive place to live.Actions thatincrease the cost of water willhave
a serious impact on those who can afforditthe least.My bottom lineisthisproposal
ispremature at best. Inthistime of climate uncertainty,the lastthing we should do is
rush to make radicaldecisions to our water system that could negatively affectour
abilityto meet future needs. EMI must be maintained forthe good of the Upcountry
community. As the saying goes, ifit'snot broken, don'tfixit.Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 219
CHAIR LEE: Thank you foryour testimony. Members, do you have questions? Ifnot,thank
you very much, Mr. Deleon.
MR. DELEON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisTom Croly. To be
followed by Toni Eaton.
MR. TOM CROLY (testifying on Resolution No. 22-119 CD1 FDD:
Iapologize,Ididn'tintendto,you know, testifytwice. That's why Igot confused on the
last item and kind of came in at the last-second. So, I'lljust say one quick little
comment, and that isthe idea of settingup an authorityto bid on the water rights,to
put in,you know, a proposal forthat,isprobably sound at thismoment.
The idea that thisgoes furtherand defines allof the what's going to happen in the
futureand the authority'sresponsibilitiesand so forthis premature. And even within
the document, itsays we can set up other water authoritiesbesides the East one by
ordinance. But why wouldn't you justwant to do allof that by ordinance, ratherthan
put thatinCharter rightnow? So, again, Idon'tthinkthe whole thing has been thought
out and Idon'tthinkthatyou're going to resolve ittoday inthismeeting, unfortunately.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Croly. Mahalo for that
clarificationon your previous testimony. So, regarding Charter authority,do you
understand that the Council, this amendment would be necessary in order for future
water authoritiesto be set up via ordinance?
MR. CROLY: Well, I,Iguess so. You know, Iguess you would have to set-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
MR. CROLY -set itup, you know, forfutureones. But my point is thatjust settingup an
authority,saying one can existmight be enough at thispoint,okay? And not allof the
other stuff that's in there.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 220
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Croiy.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any other questions,Members? Questions? Ifnot, thank you
Mr. Croiy.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lastperson, oh, Chair, we don't have any other
individualssigned up to testifyon Resolution 22-119, CD1, FD1. We willproceed with
lastcall.Ifthere are any individualswho want to testifyon thisitem and have not done
so, please identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisislastcall.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto closingpublic testimony and accepting
writtentestimony on this,on CC [s/c/22-119,CD1, FD1?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
RESOLUTIONS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
RESOLUTION
22-119, CD1, FD1NO.
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
(1983), AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH A MAUI
NUl COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS AND AN
EAST MAUI REGIONAL COMMUNITY BOARD
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, County Communication 22-167 isalso before the body at
this time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 221
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: It'slisted under Mr. Molina.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Hang on, Madam Chair. Sorry. Madam Chair, we are on
again 22-119, correct?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. And, and the other,the other one that I mentioned, 167.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, Madam Chair,can Irequest a recess fora procedural
matter? Short recess.
CHAIR LEE: Of course. Of course. Members, five-minute recess.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Reconvene at 10-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can we take a littlelonger? Can we take ten minutes
please? i have to drive to the airportrightat thistime. So, ifwe're going to take a
recess for Member Molina forthe procedural reason, can we justdo fiveextra minutes
so thatIcan get to the airport?
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You need 15 minutes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That would be nice.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members, let'stake 15 minutes, okay. We don'twant her speeding.
Okay, meeting in recess, meeting in recess until10:15, so 14 minutes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 222
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:01 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:18 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe reconvened meeting of July 15, 2022, please reconvene on Monday
July 18. Itisnow 10:19 and Ibelievewe, Mr. Molina has the floor.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, FD1 ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Member King,to pass Resolution 22-119
CD1, FD1 on first[sic]and finalreading.
Any discussion, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Resolution 22-119,
CD1, FD1 would place on the next General Electionballotthe question of whether the
Charter should be furtheramended, effectiveupon approval by the majorityof the
voters,voting on the proposed amendment and upon certificationof such resultto
establish a Maui Nui Community Water Systems and an East Maui Regional
Community Board.
Madam Chair,at thispoint I'llyieldthe floorto my colleague from East Maui. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr.,Mr. Clerk,yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,apologies. Just to clarify,Mr. Molina's motion, justto
confirm thatit'son second and finalreading.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, Ithought itwas. Ithought itwas finalreading, so that'swhy Isaid final
reading. So, second and finalreading, for the record.
And now, Mr. Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 223
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, FD1
WITH THE PROPOSED FD2 VERSION ATTACHED TO THE
ASF POSTED FOR THIS ITEM, INCORPORATING THE
FOLLOWING AMENDMENTS;
1. THE RESOLUTION'S TITLE AND THROUGHOUT THE
RESOLUTION'S
COMMUNITY WATER AUTHORITIES" INSTEAD OF
"MAUI NUl COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS."
BODY USE "MAUI COUNTY
2. IN THE SIXTH AND SEVENTH PARAGRAPHS. ADD
"COLLECTIVE" IN FRONT OF '
COMMUNITY WATER AUTHORITIES.
MAUI COUNTY
IN PROPOSED CHARTER SECTION 8-19.1, ADD
"GRANT WRITERS, COMMUNITY LIAISONS, AND
WATER SYSTEM TECHNICAL ANALYSTS" AFTER
"ADMINISTRATORS."
3.
CORRESPONDING GRAMMATICAL4. MAKE
CORRECTIONS.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second, okay. Members, been moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by
Member King, to,to make these changes inthe FD2 version. Isthatwhat you said,
Mr. Sinenci? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes, Chair. Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Members, we discussed several options
for what to callthis new collectiveentity,includingthe "Maui Nui Community Water
Systems". Ifthe voters approved thisCharter amendment, the water authoritieswould
be established as County of Maui agencies under the administrativebranch. To reflect
their officialadministrative nature, I wanted to retain the term "Maui County" when
referencingit.But as we learned during the APT Committee meetings, the County of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 224
Maui has priorityover other non-municipal interestswhen applying for State water
licenses. So, using the Maui County name in theiragency titlewillhelp to instantly
demonstrate theirofficialMaui County status.
Ialso proposed using the term "Water Authorities"...develop the proposed, the water
authorityorganizationalstructurearound researching differentmodels of water system
management in the U.S. and around the world. Water authorities are the most
common model of water system management in the world setup as self-supporting
government agencies with community boards. Water authoritiesaround the world and
across America collectand distributewater in a transparent,community-oriented and
fiscallyresponsiblemanner. Ithinkit'simportantto reflectthe structureofthe proposed
entityas a water authorityin the name of the organization. This willassist with
qualifyingforgrant funding opportunitiesthatrequirecommunity involvement.
And using the name "Water Authority"willhelp to promote public education efforts.
The term "Water Authority"isa generallyrecognized terminology for a known model
of operation that our community members are already familiarwith. And to prevent
confusion and duplication,the term "water systems" isused throughout the resolution
to referto the water resource deliverysystems that are to be managed. This would
result in a water systems that manage water systems. So, using the term "water
authority"avoids having the same term referenced,but separate withinthe inter,and
interdependent of each other.
As forthe proposal to add specificstaffinSection 8-19.1,thisstems from community
feedback, the Members input,and stakeholders interestsinsuring staffingto assist
communities countywide with the establishment of water authorities.And to provide
immediate staffingfor the newly-created East Maui Community Water Authority,
including grant writers to obtain Federal, State, and private funding for feasibility
studies, business modeling for long-term capitalimprovement projects;community
liaisons for outreach, public engagement, and receiving stakeholder input. And
technicalanalyst to investigate,evaluate and negotiate potentialadditionalsources
once acquired, collect data required to meet State regulations and provide the
community with informationabout the status of water resources.
Chair,1believethese amendments do not significantlychange the main proposal we've
been supporting, but itdoes provide clarificationthat would be helpfulto the County
and the community as we continue with this Charter amendment process. So, i
respectfullyrequest the Members support of my motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members?
Yes, Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 225
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Excuse me, Chair, apologies. Apologies to request this,but
may iplease request a briefrecess to discuss with you a procedural matter?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any objectionsto a five-minuterecess? Itwould be 10:30
10:31 we would return. Okay.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Five, five-minute recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:26 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:36 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE; Willthe Council meeting please reconvene. Itis Monday, July 18, and itis
10:36 a.m.
Mr. Sinenci. Okay, where we are rightnow isMr. Sinenci made a motion to substitute.
Now, it,I had opened the floorfor discussion, but Mr. Sinenci willalso make an
amendment as well. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Chair, itlooks likewe're missing one
Councilmember. So, ifImay, Iwould liketo withdraw my motion, and then consider
bringingthisup afterwards. We understand thatCharter amendments are important,
and we need to have itdone by today. So, ifthe Members would consider, Iwould
withdraw my motion at this. . . bringingitup when we do have allCouncilmembers
present.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina,would you liketo withdraw your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Iguess, ifthat'sthe preference of the body.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any objections.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Madam Chair, could we leave the motion liveon the floorand
then justcome back to it,you know, inthe calendar,or at some other point? Imean,
whatever isyour preference. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Eitherway, itdoesn't matter to me because we're going to defer thisitem for
now. So, it'sup to you whether you want to withdraw your motion, or just leave it
pending.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 226
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
WELL, I GUESS FOR THE, I'LL JUST GO AHEAD AND
WITHDRAW THEN.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: And we’ll--
CHAIR LEE: And Member King, Ithinkyou were the second. You want to withdraw your
second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
YEAH, ICAN WITHDRAW.
Ijusthave a question inadditionto this.
CHAIR LEE: What isyour question?
(See pages 272 through 283 fordiscussion and action.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Well, since we need allCouncilmembers, are we, you know, will
we defer the Charter amendments tillwe get the ninthMember? The 22-144 as well?
CHAIR LEE: Any, Members, any objectionsto,to deferringallthe Charter amendments?
Maybe not the one having to do with climatechange, we can take thatone up. Okay.
So, we'lldefer allofthe other,the East Maui item,and the planning commission Charter
proposal. What we could take up now would be the Waipu'ilaniProject.Any objections
to doing that?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot, ifnot, let'sask Mr. Clerk to callthat up, CR 22-, 22-61.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony on Committee Report
22-61. Right now, we are takingtestimony on Committee Report 22-61 only.
The firstperson signed up to testifyon thisitem is Dale Thompson. To be followed by
Shekinah Cantere.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 227
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Thompson?
Mr. Clerk, next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisShekinah Cantere.
To be followed by Robin Knox.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'scallon Ms. Knox.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, apologies, Chair. Ms. Cantere was walking up to the
podium.
MS. SHEKINAH CANTERE (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha again. My name is Shekinah Cantere. My next testimony is to oppose
CR 22-61, the Hale Waipu'ilaniProject.Although Isupport affordablehousing being
builtforlocalresidents,Ioppose thisprojectmainly because thispropertyislocatedin
a FEMA flood zone.
Igrew up on the makai side of where thishousing proposal is. Ican personally share
with you that growing up on Ewa Place, which isrightby Maui Sunset, only about a
ten-minute walk from the Waipu'ilaniProject,my three olderbrothersand Iwould have
to barricadeour yard so thatthe insideof our hale wouldn't get flooded. Almost every
heavy rainfall,my neighbors,the Moody's, who liverightacross from us,do get flooded
inside theirhouse. As children,my brothers and Iwould kayak in our flooded street.
That's how deep the water gets.
This proposed spot is located in a wetland and is also a safety hazard due to the
surrounding roads having no curbs, sidewalk or shoulders. This projectwillcause
more congestion in this area and affectthe neighborhood’s way of lifeby adding
unnecessary stressof being overpopulated. There are also safetyconcerns forwhen
emergencies and evacuations happen. I'veheard other people talkabout a land swap
and Iapprove ofthe idea so thatwe can conserve thissiteas is.
I'dliketo encourage allof you here and listeningtoday, to make every decisionnot
only based on what isneeded now, but also what's going to be needed forour future
generations. Ireallyappreciate ailof your time. Mahalo nui.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 228
CHAIR LEE: Any questionsforthe testifier,Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thanks, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Cantere. Just,can you reiteratefor
me, Ican't,Idon't remember where you said you live.Is it--
MS. CANTERE: Well, Igrew up rightacross Ewa Place, so it'srightacross from the area
that'sgoing to be builtnear Maui Sunset. But my parents are stillthere. I don't live
there anymore. Iliveupper Kihei.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And your,when you talkabout kayaking, you were talking
about on South Kihei Road?
MS. CANTERE: Yes, we could do that there. But Iwas talkingmainly about our streetwhere
we did it,because my parents,you know, we were kids,wouldn'tjustletus go out there
by ourselves on South Kihei.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. No, Idon'twant to get your parents introuble.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. CANTERE: Okay. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: No otherquestions.Members?
Alright,Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyis Robin
Knox. To be followedby Lawrence Carnicelli.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Knox?
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61):
My name isRobin Knox. Iam speaking on behalfof myself. Aloha. My name isRobin
Knox and I'm speaking on behalf of myself. This area where thishousing . . .this
proposal, which isthe area where thishousing is loca,proposed projectislocated is
already flooding because of development on top of the wetlands ina floodplain.Each
additionaldevelopment over time makes itworse and negativelyimpacts the homes
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 229
thatare already there. There's a high probabilitythat the new homes at the sitewould
floodand, worse than the floodingthatalready exists.
With regard to the purchase of expensive flood insurance,there'sno guarantee that
the developer can do what he said to get that requirement waived. Furthermore, even
ifflood insurance is required through financing,there'sno guarantee that itwould
actuallybe availableifthe riskis high, because the companies don'twant to insure
high risk.
The idea of a land,land swap with the County . ..situationthat not only puts families
out of harm's way but gives the County room for natural and green infrastructureto
address the flooding.Itwould protectthe homeowners and move the homes out of an
area sure to be impacted furtherby climate change, sea levelrise,and groundwater
levelsrisingin increasinglyintense storms that cause flooding.
Ihave familymembers and friendswho have had to been rescued from floodsand who
have losteverythingthey owned to flooddamage. Iwould never want to put anyone
else at riskforthathappening. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions forthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Knox.
MS. KNOX: You're welcome.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyin Lawrence
Carnicelli,inthe chambers. To be followed by David Bruce.
MR. LAWRENCE CARNICELLI. ALAULA BUILDERS (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-61):
Good morning. Mbote, Chair and Members. My name is Lawrence Carnicelli.I
represent the, the applicant. I'm the Vice-President of Development for Alaula
Builders. Heard a lotof testimony on thisover the lastcouple of days, eleven hours
on Friday. Right project,wrong place. I'm infavor of affordablehousing,but I'mnot a
NIMBY, 1livedown the street.Although Isupport affordablehousing, allthose things.
Firstthing Ithinkthat Ineed to do isjustaddress some ofthe things,because you have
heard, you know, the presentationtwice,hours of discussion on this.But there'ssome
people, you know, justsortof have heard thingswhether itbe onlineor othertestifiers
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 230
and they justshowed up and startedtestifying.So, a couple ofthingsisthiswillnever
go to market rate,market rate,it’sa 297 application.
It'snot a wetlands, the Army Corps of Engineers isthe determining body forthat. We
have, so, it'snot a wetlands. We're not going to be exempted from anything SMA.
We're not bypassing drainage standards. We are going to do frontage improvements.
The prices,we've gone over the prices. We're going to, you know, work with
Department of Housing and Human Concerns with the deferred payment mortgage
program to buy down the prices.
There are three walls. There's walls surrounding three sides of thisproject. There's
not drainage coming on or off,that'sjustnot true. One, one, there'sone lotthatthe
gentleman who livesthere testifies,he actuallyfloods onto thisproperty,not the other
way around. Ialso finditcurious out of allof the pages and pages ofwrittentestimony
that I'vegone over and listenedto every piece of the oraltestimony, there's not been
one piece of evidence about thisproperty.
Kihei has floodingissues,100 percent. Kiheihas trafficissues. Kihei has issues. But
no one's brought anything about thisproperty. There's actuallyone pictureof a little
pond on thispropertyon December 6, 2021. The pond on my property inWailuku was
bigger than that on December 6, 2021. I'm not negating the concerns of neighbors.
They're important. But every neighbor isgoing to have issues no matter where we go.
Like everyone said land swap. We're going to have to deal with whoever the neighbors
are there,right?
Also want to just,some people have thought that us saying thatwe were going to do
something market rate isa threat. It'snot a threat. It'sjust,it'san entitledpiece of
property. Ifwe can'tdo affordablehousing, we have to reassess what we're going to
do, and thatisan option.
Iwant to justgo over some projectsthatare forsale affordablehousing. The Heritage
in Maui Lani, Kahoma Village,Kahoma Residential. IfIcould justfinish.Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. CARNICELLI; Kaiaulu, Kalama Kai, Pailolo Place, . .. Farms, Waiale Elua, Hale Kaiola,
Kilohana Makai, Waikapu Ventures, Pulelehua, Pu'unani DHHL. Allof those projects,
the neighbors opposed. Allbut two ofthem have been built,awesome neighborhoods.
The neighbors opposed them. They're now awesome neighborhoods and they'repart
of the community, but the neighbors opposed. And so. I'm not saying it'sjust,you
know, thatwe shouldn'tlistento the neighbors. I'm not saying that. I'mjustsaying is
we're going to run intoitwherever we go. ... affordable.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 231
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank,thank you very much, Mr. Carnicelii.
Members, do you have any questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Carnicelii,foryour testimony. Idon't have a lot
of time. Ijustwas wondering withthe increasingstorm frequency and what not,would
you be willingto increase the drainage requirements from a 50-year storm to a
100-year storm?
MR. CARNICELLI: Idon't know ifthat'spossible? Imean, we could look at it,for sure. I
don'tknow ifit'spossible,but we could look at it,yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
I,Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Lawrence. Good to see you. Sorry
not there inthe chamber. Ijustwanted to--
MR. CARNICELLI: Yeah, Imiss you guys.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwanted to ask you about, you know, I mean, the idea that
it'snot a wetland, I think it'snot regulated as a wetland because it'snot adjacent to
navigable waters. Which, would you agree thatthat'sthe Army Corps of Engineers
definition?
MR. CARNICELLI: No, that'snot the Army Corps of Engineers definition.There's three
criteria,you have to meet the criteria.It'snot,justisitnext to,that'snot the criteria.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, well,that'smy time. Iguess Ican'tfinish.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Carnicelii,you want to tellus the three criteria,and then that'sall?
MR. CARNICELLI: Oh, gosh. One issoil.One isfloraand fauna. And the other one, Ican't
recall what itis.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 232
MR. CARNICELLI: I’msorry.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
MR. CARNICELLI; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, that'sit.Thank you.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair,the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon Committee
Report 22-61 isDavid Bruce inthe chambers.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Bruce.
MR. DAVID BRUCE (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-61);
Aloha. Thank you. Councilmembers. My name isDavid Bruce, and Iam partowner
in the Hale Waipu'ilani Project. I wanted to share from my point of view why we're
attempting to buildthisworkforce development. I am in real estate,but I'm not a
developer. I'venever developed anything ever inmy life.But Hawaii's been my home
for22 years,where my wife and Iare raisingour three children.And I'mspeaking as
Keoni Kuoha pointed out forthe underrepresented people thatthisisfor.
I'veseen firsthand,I'm sure as many of you have, the struggleof our friendsover the
years that have had to hold down two and three jobs only to eventuallymove to the
mainland. Native Hawaiians born and raised here move to the mainland because it's
too expensive and they lose hope of forever owning a piece of land. That iswhy I'm
doing thisdevelopment.
It'ssignificantto own a piece of the land. We could have done market rate housing,
as most developers do here. Itwas reallyhard to hear the backlash of immediate
neighbors and others. Imean, the entiresurrounding area isdeveloped. Iunderstand
it'sina floodzone. So, itseems a littledisingenuous to say it'sokay forus to livehere,
but not forthese people. For me, it'sabout impacting people thatlivehere thatmake
up the communities, industryworkers, teachers,firemen,policemen,construction,and
so on. This isa chance to keep localfamiliesfirmlyplanted in Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 233
Give them an opportunityto stop paying someone else'smortgage. Impact the legacy
oftheirfamiliesforgenerationsto come and finallyown a piece ofthe land. The median
pricepointis$1.2 million,as we know, and it'smassive and growing. We're offeringa
chance forresidentsto own forsignificantlylessthan that. So, we have to take every
opportunitythatwe can to make thiswork. Yes, maybe we'lladd totraffic,more people
walking the streets,but itwillalso add to the Kihei community and people that are
committed to callingMaui home. Think about how you feltwhen you firstpurchased
your home.
We've been working fortwo years. We've addressed every issue as Lawrence stated,
with the engineering inplace to make thisa bettersituationthan most buildingsinthat
area. So, while itmight not be a perfectsituation,I would ask that those who are
opposed to make room on the land and share the aloha that makes Maui special.
Iwould ask that the Council take a moment, take a moment. I'm almost done, and think
about the familiesthat are waiting,strugglingon the sidelinesto purchase theirfirst
home, how gratefulthey willbe to leave behind the conversation should we move to
the mainland? Thank you for your time. And 1would ask that you would please vote
in favor of Hale Waipu'ilaniforthe people of Maui.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Oh, wait,we have one question from Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Bruce, foryour testimony.
It'sprettymuch the same question Iasked Mr. Carnicelli.We're seeing increasingly
frequent large storms, and I was wondering ifyou would be willingto increase the
drainage from a 50-year storm to a 100-year storm?
MR. BRUCE; Yeah, Iwould have to,you know, we'd have to look intothat. Like he said
we're,we're not sure ifthat'spossible. But ifitis,absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,any more questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Bruce.
MR. BRUCE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIRLEE; Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 234
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next,the next person signed up to testifyon Committee
Report 22-61 isCody Tuivaiti.
MR. CODY TUIVAITI (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-61):
Aloha. Aloha, Council. Mahalo foryour time.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. TUIVAITI; My name is Cody Nemet Tuivaiti.I'm a life-longresidentof Kula Kai. A
member of the Aha Moku Council, a steward of Hui O ‘AinakOko'a 0 Waiohuli Kai, a
restorationprojectinthe vicinityof thisproposed development.
He moku he wa'a, he wa'a he moku. He moku he wa‘a, he wa‘a he moku. An island
isa canoe, a canoe isan island.This isa very famous ‘olelono'eau thatspeaks to the
differencebetween the quantityof life,as to the qualityof life.As a steward and
advocate for restoration,itisvitalthat our impacts to our environment are held to the
highest regard. This involves water quality,marine health,culturalawareness, and
mitigationmeasures inthe terms of sea levelrise,runoffand storm surge.
As we have seen recently,storm surge isvery realand so isfloodingand runoff. I
worry because there'smore emphasis on new growth and less on the existingwell
being of our community and aina. Iwould liketo entertainthisidea of land being turned
to,of thisland being turned to conservation and a land swap as was mentioned to me
as a possibility.
Being that thisarea is already surrounded with homes, conservation land isexactly
what thisarea needs. Not justfor the environment, but for the qualityof lifein an
existingcommunity. As much as we need good homes, we need a good qualityof life.
What isthe sense that we cram everybody together ifeveryone is miserable, more
traffic,more flooding,loss ofenvironment, lossof moralitywithinour localcommunities.
We became strangers in our own town.
As a member of the Aha Moku Council, we have made ita mission to represent core
values when itcomes to stewardship of such conservation areas, a place that is
impactfulto our running waterways, our endemic and nativeplants,the continuationof
healthy hydrology thatpermeates to our oceans. Overall,a betterqualityof life.
I ask that we revisitother options proposed and remember thatwhile we look to the
future for our much needed affordable housing, that there are already thousands of
homes here thatalso need to be acknowledged. It'spono planning. And as someone
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 235
who grew up hisentirelifeinKula Kai,Ican tellyou firsthandthatwe are experiencing
too many changes too quickly.We have been impacted. We are beginning to become
strangers inour own home. We have lostso many of those core values we grew up
with due to the heavy influxof misguided planning. One more thing,planning ismore
than justmeeting requirements and settingstandards. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Cody. You know, you're working on
wetland restorationalong with a few other of our,of our community members. And so,
do you consider thisarea thatwe're talkingabout a wetland?
MR. TUIVAITI: Yes. Definitely.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That's what Ithought. Thank you. Thank you forbeing
here. Appreciate it.
MR. TUIVAITI: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Chair, we do not have any other individualssigned up to testifyon Committee
Report 22-61, so we willdo a lastcallatthistime, ifthere are any individualswho wish
to testifyon Committee Report 22-61, please identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisisour
last call.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and accepted, accepting
writtentestimony forcommunications on thisCR 22-61 ?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with Committee Report 22-61.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 236
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-61NO. AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE;
Recommending the following:
1. That Resolution 22-131. CD1 . entitled "APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS
THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPUJLANI
WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAU! COUNTY
CODE," be ADOPTED;
2. That Resolution
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPU1LANI WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE," be FILED; and
22-130 entitled "APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
3. That Resolution 22-132 . entitled "DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE," be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. I kind of am in the same feeling as
Councilmember Shane Sinenci,thatthisissuch an important matter,Iwould hope that
we could wait for all nine Councilmembers to be here so we could vote for it. Ifthe
body would allow it,Iwould recommend maybe we take a lunch now, or we can move
onto other matters and come back to this. So, that would be my suggestion ifwe could
do that.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. 1thought that Member Rawlins-Fernandez
said she was going to be on the plane from 11 to 11:30 and so she had asked us to
wait till11:30 so thatshe could be present forany votes thatwe take, isthatwhat the
timing that she, Ithinkthatwas the timing? So, Iwould support Member Johnson's
proposal.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Idon't mind doing that,but she did ask fortime to get to the airport.I
assumed thatshe was going to participateon her phone.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 237
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Ithinkshe couldn'tget connected. She was tryingto but
she couldn'tget connected.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objectionsto deferringthisitem?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Later on the calendar? Okay. No objections,so ordered.
(See pages 284 through 291 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'stake up the reso having to do with climate change, the Charter
proposal.
Member, Imean not, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on Resolution 22-165. At this
time,we willaccept testimony only on Resolution22-165. Chair,there does not appear
to be anyone signed up to testifyon thisitem,so we willdo a lastcallat thistime. If
there isanybody who wishes to testifyon Resolution22-165, please identifyyourself
now. Last call.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closing public testimony and accepting written
testimony forcommunications on thisitem?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk,please callup thisitem.
RESOLUTIONS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-165
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF
MAUI (1983),AS AMENDED, RELATING TO
PROMOTING CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 238
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Imove to adopt, Idon'thave my notes. Chair. But I'llmove to
adopt this.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair? Point of clarification.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member, Member Molina,isthatone ofyours? I’m sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. This is,thisis under the GREAT Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yeah, we're ... so much out of order that I,because I,Icalled on her
because she was the proposer of thatamendment, so.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
SO, WITH THAT BEING SAID, IMOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION
22-165 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Pro Temp Kama, to pass Resolution
22-165 on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Resolution 22-165
would place on the next General Election ballotthe question of whether the Revised
Charter of the County of Maui (1983), as amended, should be further amended
effectiveJanuary 2, 2023, to establisha County policyto promote climate change
adaptation,includingthe implementation ofguidelinesto allowtelework and alternative
work schedules forcertainMaui County employees.
As noted during firstreading, both the Mayor’s Officeof Climate Change, Resiliency
and Sustainability,along with the Managing Director expressed support for this
proposal.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 239
At this time, I'llyield the floorto Member Kama for additional comments on this
proposal.
CHAIR LEE; Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you very much, Chair. Thank you very much, Mr. Molina.
Thank you, Members, for gettingthisparticularproposal to thisstage today. And I
\A/ouldjustcontinue to ask foryour continued support. Thank you. Chair. Thank you,
Mr. Molina.
CHAIR LEE; Any, any furtherdiscussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes",one "excused"; motion carries. Excused isVice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
Well, Members, do you want to work on the referrals?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I have a question. So, we have testifierssittingin the
chambers that have a time schedule. They’re hoping, and Ithink they'resittinghere
on the outdoor lightingbill.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Well, the problem is that that'sanother one that we wouldn't take up
withoutthe majorityhere.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Can we justhave the testifierstestifyout of consideration
for them? They've been sittinghere ailmorning thinkingthatwe were going to take
this up at 9;00.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 240
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; As was our-
CHAIRLEE: Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I was wondering ifwe could complete J? Cause that
seems fairlyinnocuous.
CHAIR LEE: Well, okay, letme take up the suggestion of Member Sugimura first.
Mr. Clerk,how many people do we have signed up forthe lightbill?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are currentlysix individualssigned up to testifyon
Bill21, CD1, FD1 (2022).
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, itispossibleto take up the testimony but not take up the item? I'm
asking you, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Yes, Chair, the body can do that with the other
items. They could take the testimony on the item now, and then, ifthey close It,they
can close the testimony. And then,ifthey need to defer the item tilllaterinthe agenda,
they can.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objectionsto doing that?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'sproceed with testimony on bill,the lightbill.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Bill21.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with testimony on Bill21, CD1, FD1 (2022).
We willbe accepting testimony on thisitem at thistime, and thisitem only.
The firstperson signed up to testifyon thisitem is Jordan Molina. To be followed by
Randy Yamanuha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 241
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Jordan Molina? I see that Public Works is connected to the
meeting.
MR. JORDAN MOLINA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS ftestifyinaon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1
(2022)1:
Thank you, Chair. So, just for clarification,willI stillhave the opportunity,or is the
Committee going intodiscussion on the matter at thistime?
CHAIR LEE: No, we're not. We're not going intodiscussionat this,we're justtakingtestimony
on people, from people who did not have an opportunityto testifyon thisat Friday's
Council meeting.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: So, willI be able to wait untilthe matter isbrought forth
fortestimony?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Yes, you can.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Okay, I'lldefer to then. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.So, Mr. Clerk,can you callup the next person, Mr. Yamanaha [sic].
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testifyis Randy
Yamanuha, inthe chambers. To be followed by Gary Sanchez.
MR. RANDY YAMANUHA [testifyingon BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning. Honorable Chair and fellow Councilmembers. My name is Randy
Yamanuha, a retiredprincipalof Maui High School and former president of both the
Maui interscholasticLeague and the Hawaii High School AthleticAssociation. I am
here today to testifyon Bill21.
Although the billhas itsmerits. I'm asking you to reconsider in not passing the billat
thistime untilsome unintended consequences and communitywide ramificationscan
be discussed with allaffected parties.As previous testimony mentioned, the obvious
financialimpacts in the loss of revenues from the decreasing gate receipts and
investments innew equipment inorder to comply with the billrequirements.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 242
Other consequences thatImay pointout isthe greaterriskforthe healthand safetyof
our student athletes. Moving athleticcompetition during the heat of the day places
students inan increased riskforheat-relatedinjuries.Other unintended consequences
by moving events to the daytime willgreatlyimpact our community's sports leagues as
itwilllessen availableplaying fieldswhile high school teams and community teams
compete forthe same fieldsduring a smaller time window.
Another issue should be considered moving events to the daytime and itsimpact inthe
league's abilityto secure officials.For example, in football,most of the officialshave
a regularday jobs and moving events early inthe day willnegativelyimpact the number
of officialsavailableforsportingevents. On a side note,we've had judges, prosecuting
attorneys as footballofficials,which they wouldn't be able to officiatedaytime events
due to work schedules and they'llbe sorely missed by the league and fans as they
bring some sensibility,they bring some sense of credibilityto the game. With
increasing number of schools in the MIL, scheduling games during the week is a
necessitydue to facilitiesand officials'availability.
However, today, the most important unintended consequences Iwant to speak about
coming as an educator to you ismoving games to the daytime willimpact our student's
education. Athleticpractices and games were moved to the end of the school day to
lessen the amount of students missing instructionalclass time. Having day games,
especiallyinthe MIL, which isa tri-isleleague, travelistime, isa big component for
teams. Students will miss more instructional class time because they willhave to leave
school earlierin order to have proper warm-up time as injuryprevention priorto the
sporting event commences.
Lastly,our students and community willbe affectedsociallyand emotionally Ifthere
are no evening activitiesfor them as we found out during the pandemic lockdown.
Have we thoroughlydiscussed the impact of our students and the greatercommunity?
In closing,please consider your decision. I ask you to consider allthe unintended
consequences of Bill21. Thank you for this opportunity to speak on behalf of the
students.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Randy, we have a question from Member King and from Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha, Randy. Nice to see you. What about thisbillmakes you
thinkthatwe're tryingto move you to day games? Because allthe sports arenas and
sportingevents are exempted?
MR. YAMANUHA: No, Iwas told that the lightswould be a problem, so games would have
to be moved.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 243
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, you're,you'reexempted from, until,ifthere were lightsthat
were available that were industry standard, but we're told,we, you know, we did
communicate withthe Department of Education,and the privateschools, and the Parks
Department, and they were okay with itas long as--
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Randy, could you respond to Member King, please? We, we have a
very short time frame--
MR. YAMANUHA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: -to ask questions.
MR. YAMANUHA: Iwas justtoldthe games would have to be moved because of the lighting.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. That'snottrue.Thank you for,thank you foryour concern.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Aloha, Mr. Yamanuha. Thank you
for being here. And you, as a former school administrator,you have a lotof good
insightthat'sappreciated. So, has there been talkamongst the DOE from where you
stand, as faras the concerns with thisproposed billas itaffectsgames and everything
else,and a lotof parents out there?
MR. YAMANUHA: We'lluse an example of Kauai when they went to only day games. We
fought a lotto get State tournaments here on Maui to help defray the costs for our
parents on traveling.And ifthathappens, we might not have those State tournaments.
We recentlyhad the baseballState tournament here and was reallyattended well. We
have tennis,we have the golf,so that'sa concern of the league and the coaches here.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you, Mr. Yamanuha. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.Oh, we have one more question. Randy, can you come back?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Yamanuha. I just was
wondering, you know, as thisbillgets more famous, more people are chiming in. And
ifitwere to be recommitted, do you thinkmembers of the league, or whatever, would
come and be a part of the discussion about a way forward that isacceptable?
MR. YAMANUHA: Ican'tspeak forthe league, but I'msure, because that'sthe chatter right
now, as coaches and some of the officialsthat I'vetalked to.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 244
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: How about you?
MR. YAMANUHA: I'llbe available.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Awesome. Thank you.
MR. YAMANUHA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisGary Sanchez. To
be followed by John Pelletier.
Gary Sanchez isinthe chambers.
MR. GARY SANCHEZ ftestifvinaon Bill21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning, Councilmembers.
schoolteacher and stillcoaching. I'mhere totestifyagainst thislightingbill.Itconcerns
me. I'vecoach here at Maui over 50 years. I'veyet to see a birdfallfrom the sky that
hita lightpole.
My name is Gary Sanchez. I am a retired
At the same time,should we ban sportingevents at night? What about our keiki? What
about our youth? The temperature has been rising.The lastcouple days where Ilive
up in Omaopio, 93 degrees. You want these kids to be out inthissunlight,exposed?
Their safety isat risk.You hear the, you hear the Humane Society and other groups
testifyingthatthe ranchers got to provide shade fortheircattle.What about our kids?
Anybody care about them?
Mr. Yamanuha said about the State tournaments. This past year, we took our kids
from Baldwin High School, coaches, and girls,and boys, itcost us almost $12,000, our
share, not what the school put out. Should we now have the State track tournament
next year on Maui, where we going to come up with 12, $13,000 again? Money don't
fallfrom the sky.
You talked of COVID, our kids fortwo years couldn'tparticipate.They put on weight.
They're lazy. Allthey want to do isplay on the cellphone and indoors. What about
their physical, you know, nobody cares about them anymore. They're a lost
generation. So, consider what I'm tryingto say. It'svery important for the kids to
participate.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 245
And the day games, likeRandy said,where we going to get officials?Where we going
get playing fields? Everybody is fightingfor fields. Soccer, soccer, baseball,little
league, you know how many fieldsare taken up in any given day? What about the
high school kids? You want them out on the town creatingproblems inthe community?
Robbing? Imean, you know, we keep them active.We keep them activeinthe high
school level, keep them off the streets. We know where they are. If they're
participatinginsports,we know where they are forpractice,whatever.
So again, the safety of our kids and our welfare is a very big concern. Money isa
problem, but you know what, safetyisa factor.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Yes, Member King has a question foryou.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for being here. Mr. Sanchez. Again, thisbillwas
modeled afterHawaii County, not afterKauai. So, who was itthat led you to believe
that thiswas an attempt to close down any sportingevents at night?
MR. SANCHEZ: Well, please take itintoconsideration.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We are not,we are not tryingto shut down any sportingevents.
The sportingevents are exempt from thislightingbill.
MR. SANCHEZ: Okay, we appreciatethat,as coaches. And, you know-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. And we, and we appreciate .. . Yeah, we all-
MR. SANCHEZ: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you forbeing here.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Gary.
Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyisJeffBagshaw. Jeff
Bagshaw, Isee you're connected to the meeting, but we cannot unmute you, you are
muted on your end.
Chair, there are other testifierssigned up to testifyon this item, but they have all
requested to testifybefore the,at the time when the Council decides to,or beforethe
time the Council will deliberate on this item.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 246
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Well, we're justnot sure what time that might be though. That's fine.
So no, no other testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; So, since JeffBagshaw isn'tresponding at thistime, there are
no other individualswho wish to testifyon Bill21, CD1, FD1 (2022) at thistime. We'll
do lastcall,though, incase there are any other individualswho would liketo testifyat
this time.
MR. JEFF BAGSHAW [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1;
I'm sorry,1was unable to mute before. But I'm here now, ifIcan?
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Bagshaw?
MR. BAGSHAW; Yes, I'm here. I'm sorry. Iwas not,Iwas muted before. m in touch now.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Did you want to testifyon thisitem?
MR. BAGSHAW; Yes, please.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Please proceed.
MR. BAGSHAW; So, I'm Jeff Bagshaw. I'm with the Divisionof Forestry and Wildlife,
although I’mspeaking formyself. Iknow thatmy agency isinsupport ofthisbill.And
with respect to previous testimony, Ithinkwe need only look to our neighbors to the
south, who have successful lightingbillsthatprotectthe nightskies. And people can
go on and function as well. I know that folks have safety concerns regarding car
accidents, or police matters, but again, any time you look at statisticson, at other
places where dark skies are protected,there isno significantincrease ineithercrime,
or accidents. And as stated before,thisexempts athleticendeavors.
So, we need only look to Hawaii Island to see that this does not impede human
activities.We reallyhave to make room forthe native species thatare endangered
and are going to lose ground as the northwest Hawaiian Islandsgo underwater.
So, I'm,I'minsupport ofthisbill,but not the,not the Corporate Counsel version,which
focuses on Kelvin instead of blue light.That's kind of a weapons of mass distraction.
It'sreally,the significantissue isthatwe need to take out the blue lightinour lighting,
and protectthese seabirds, because they belong here. And Iwillstand by the restof
my writtentestimony and close. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 247
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Jeff. I really
appreciate your support for this,and your expertise. And can you just confirm that
Hawaii County, Iknow they'vebeen, they've had over a decade of thissimilarlighting
bill,and they have, thatthey have had nightsportingevents the lastten years?
MR. BAGSHAW; Yes, that'strue. They've had nightsportingevents. They, Ithinkthe only
impact I'veever experienced, or that I’veever heard isthat sometimes visitors,who
have certaincolored cars may not recognize where theircar isinthe lot.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Take a picture.Alright,thank you. Thanks forbeing here.
CHAIR LEE: Questions? Thank you.
MR. BAGSHAW: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,allremaining testifiersforBill21, CD1, FD1, (2022) have
requested to testifybefore,atthattime before the Council deliberateson the item. But
we'lldo a lastcallto see ifanyone wants to testifyat thistime. Ifthere isanyone who
wants to testifyon Bill21 atthistime,please identifyyourselfnow.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you want to take up J, or do you want to take a break, lunch?
Members?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: J.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: J, please.
CHAIR LEE: Take up J,everybody? No objections.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on J.Communications. At this
time, we willaccept testimony on items within agenda sectionJ. Communications,
except forCounty Communication 22-167. Testimony on thatitemhas closed.Chair,
at thistime,there are no individualssigned up to testifyon items inJ.Communications,
but we willdo a lastcall. Ifthere isanybody who wants to testifyon any item inthis
agenda section,please identifyyourselfnow. Again, lastcall.
Chair, no one else has indicatedthatthey wish to testifyon any of these items.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 248
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingtestimony and accepting written?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Okay, Mr. Clerk,please proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the remaining communications. The
remaining communications are recommended forreferralto the followingCommittees
as noted:
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-168 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated June 27,2022)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loansfrom the Genera! Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General ObligationBonds Series2023 Fund as of
May 31, 2022.
The recommended action isthat County Communication 22-168 be referredto the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-169 - LANCE T. TAGUCHL COUNTY AUDITOR,
(dated June 29, 2022)
Informingof the plan of auditsproposed to be conducted during FiscalYear 2023.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-169 be referred to the
Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- SHAYNE R. AGAWA. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 22-170
(dated July5,2022)
Transmittingthe Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports forthe month ending June 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-170 be referredto the
Infrastructureand Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 249
CHAIR LEE; Are there any objectionsto the referrals,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk. Let’s see. Letter K.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; K.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair. Speaking of letterK, ifMembers have
any concerns. I'dliketo address 22-65 and 22-66. These both deal with nominations,
ifthe Members would like to deal with those two matters before we go to break.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,do you want to callup testimony?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; So, Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, am Icallingtestimony on Committee Reports 22-65 and
22-66 only?
CHAIR LEE: At this time.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Then, proceeding with testimony on-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Can we also do 22-68 and 69 in that same vein?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 250
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member, Imean, Mr. Clerk,four items.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, at thistime, we willbe callingtestimony on the
followingcommittee reports:Committee Report 22-65, 22-66, 22-68, and 22-69.
Chair, at this time, there are no individualssigned up to testifyon any of these
committee reports,but we willdo a lastcallat thistime. Ifthere are any individuals
who want to testifyon Committee Reports 22-65, 22-66, 22-68, or 22-69, please
identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisisour lastcallfortestimony on these four committee
reports.
CHAIR LEE: Members, ifthere are no objections are, to,are there any objectionsto closing
publictestimony and accepting writtentestimony on these items?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk,please proceed with callingup the items.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-65 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "REUXTING TO THE22-147Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF PATRICIA-HELEN KAHULUMEAUXNI LINDSEY MALUO-
PEARSON TO THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION", be
ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-147.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 251
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
Committee Report 22-65.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 28, 2022, to discuss the Mayor's nomination of Patricia-Helen Kahulumeaiani
Lindsey Maluo-Pearson tothe Maui County CulturalResources Commission fora term
expiringon March 31,2025, to filla vacancy replacingEmily Spenser.
Ms. Maluo-Pearson is Executive Director of Ka'ehu, a non-profitorganizationwith the
goal to restorethe land and perpetuate traditionalHawaiian cultureusing a community-
based, inclusive,family-oriented approach to environmental stewardship and
sustainable agriculture.
The Council must approve or disapprove this nomination by July 18, 2022, or the
nomination willbe deemed approved. Iask forthe Members fullsupport ofthismotion.
And your Committee also voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of the resolution.Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor-
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Ijustwanted to express fullsupport, and say how lucky
we are to have Ms. Maluo willingto serve.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",one "excused": Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 252
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-66NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE;
Recommending that Resolution
APPOINTMENT OF EDWARD JAMES RICKORD TO THE BOARD OF VARIANCES
AND APPEALS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
entitled "RELATING TO THE22-148
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-148.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Member Moli, it'sbeen moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to approve Committee Report 22-66.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 28, 2022, to discuss the Mayor's nomination of Edward James Rickord to the
Board of Variances and Appeals for the County of Maui for a term expiring on
March 31,2024, to filla vacancy replacingEmmanuel Baltazar.
Mr. Rickford[sic]isa residentof Kahakuloa and a self-employed contractorwho said
he believes integrityis important and thus would recuse himself ifthere was ever a
conflict of interest.
According to hisapplication,Mr. Rickford[sic]has served on community boards with a
focus on Kahakuloa in the past. The Council must approve or disapprove this
nomination by July 30, 2022, or the nomination willbe deemed approved.
Your Committee interviewed the nominee and voted 9-0 to recommend adoption ofthe
resolution.Iask forthe Members fullsupport of my motion. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 253
CHAIR LEE: Any otherdiscussionor questions? ifnot,allthose infavor ofthe motion, please
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes'
Motion carries.
one "excused"; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.zero noes
Mr. Clerk, 22-68.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-68NO. HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending that the Miscellaneous Communication, from the County Clerk,
transmitting an amendment to Contract C7153, between the County of Maui and
GrindlineSkateparks, Inc.,for improvements to Kalama Skate Park, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-68.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Temp Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the
recommendations inCommittee Report 22-68.
Discussion, Member Kama.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 254
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair.Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee,
having met June 27, 2022, makes reference to a miscellaneous communication dated
January 10, 2022, from the County Clerk, transmittingan amendment to Contract
C7153, betv\/eenthe County of Maui and GrindlineSkateparks,Inc.,forimprovements
to Kalama Skate Park.
Your Committee noted Contract C7153 was executed on July 31, 2020, forthe repair
of vertramps at Kalama Skate Park inthe amount of $36,655.21.
Your Committee also noted that the amendment extends the contract an additional
270 calendar days and the improvements willcorrectsafety issues. Your Committee
supported the need forthisimprovement to correctsafety issues.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend filingof communications. I respectfullyask
forthe Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any furtherdiscussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just a question, Chair. Idon't know ifwe have anybody from
Parks here, but on Friday,we had a testifiercome and testifyabout the need to open
up Kalama Skate Park. And Iwas atthe grand opening, as were you. Chair, so Idon't
know what that'sabout and Ijustwanted to ask ifMember Kama knew anything? Did
itclose back down or isthere any problem with?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Idon't know that either.Member King.
CHAIR LEE: Isanybody from Parks on the line? Apparently not.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well, maybe we could send an inquiry to the Parks
Department, justto findout ifit'sopen consistently.Because, yeah, we were both
there and we saw the kids get on the park, in the park and skate. Okay, that'sall.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion?
Yes, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 255
COUNCILMEMBER PALTiN: Oh, my impression of histestimony was thatwhen the park is
closed, that people were climbing the fence and, and things likethat. Not that it's
closed,but thatsecuritywhen it'sclosed or something.
CHAIR LEE: But we'llcheck on itanyway. Okay. So, anybody else,comments, questions?
Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Motion carries.Committee Report 22-69.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-69NO. HUMAN CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-110 .entitled"AUTHORIZING DISTRIBUTION
OF COVID-19 SUPPLIES TO THE PUBLIC, PUBLIC HEALTH AGENCIES. MEDICAL
PROVIDERS AND NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-69.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve
committee report,the recommendations in Committee Report 22-69.
Discussion, Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 256
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thankyou, Chair.Your Human Concerns and Parks Committee,
having met on June 27, 2022, makes reference to Resolution 22-110, entitled
"AUTHORIZING DISTRIBUTION OF COVID-19 SUPPLIES TO THE PUBLIC, PUBLIC
HEALTH AGENCIES, MEDICAL PROVIDERS. AND NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS".
Resolution 22-110's purpose isto approve the donation of COVID-19 supplies, such
as at-home test kits,personal protectiveequipment, and other related goods to the
public,publichealthagencies, and medical providers,and non-profitorganizations on
an on-needed basis through December 31, 2022.
Your Committee noted the COVID-19 pandemic is an ongoing public health crisis
necessitatingthe ongoing distributionof COVID-19 supplies to the public,publichealth
agencies, medical providersand non-profitorganizationssuch as Hale Makua Health
Services.Malama IKe Ola, Ka Hale A Ke Ola,Family LifeCenter, and Maui Economic
Opportunity,Inc.
Your Committee supported the County's effortsto make at-home test kitsand other
supplies availablefreeto the publicto help curb the spread of COVID-19.
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-110. Irespectfully
ask the Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Motion carries.
Mr. Clerk,shallwe take up the rest?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, that. Chair, so should I cal!testimony on the remaining
committee reports?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 257
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay, so proceeding with testimony on remaining committee
reports.At thistime,we willbe accepting testimony on committee reports,except for
those forwhich committee, forwhich testimony has already closed. The committee
reports for which testimony has closed is Committee Reports 22-61, 22-65, 22-66,
22-68, and 22-69. So, at this time, we willbe accepting testimony on Committee
Reports 22-62, 63, 64, and 67.
Chair,the firstperson signed up to testify-
CHAIR LEE; Holdup. Hold up, Mr. Clerk. We have a question.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Ithinkthatitwould be prudent of us to still
take testimony on 22-61, since we haven't taken action on that yet. We, usuallythey
say deferringisnot an action.
CHAIR LEE; Ithought we took testimony on Waipu'ilani?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, butwedidn’t-
CHAIRLEE: 22-61.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; We didn't take an action cause we're waiting for a Member.
So, ifsomebody stillwants to testifyon it,we should probably letthem cause we
haven't taken action on ityet.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yeah, yeah, testimony isnot closed. It'snot closed. Not on 22-61. So
let's,so what we could do-
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: -is take up testimony on 63, 64, and 67, how's that? Okay, Members?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Then, Chair, so at this time, we willjustbe accepting testimony
on Committee Reports 22-63, 64, and 67.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 258
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Then, atthistime,the firstperson signed up totestifyisThomas
Croly. To be followed,only Thomas Croly issigned up to testifyon any of those items.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Croly.
MR. THOMAS CROLY (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-63 & 22-67):
Aloha, Council,
understand the difficultiestoday. You know, one reason Ithinkthatthatwe would like
to testifyright before you make decision-making is so that we reach all the
Counciimembers. And of course, we're holdingoffdecision-making rightnow because
we’re missing a Councilmember. So, Ijustsay thatforthose thatjustoccurs to me.
A confusing set of circumstances for these testimonies, but I
So, letme testifyon 22-63 first.That's the one where we're increasing the home
exemption from 200,000 to 300,000 and from 300,000 to 400,000 for a homeowner
who also has a long-term rental. I think that thiswas a missed opportunity for the
Council to do what Ihad asked thatyou do, which isdiscuss propertytaxes outside of
the budget.
The idea of changing the exemption, the homeowner exemption, it'sa great idea. And
Ithinkthat.I'mglad thatyou're doing this,and I'm not testifyingagainst it.But why are
we going to 300,000? Why don'twe go to 400,000? Would 350 be a betternumber?
Would 500,000 be a betternumber? None of those thingsreallygot considered and I
do want you to understand that when you give an exemption, that means we're not
going to tax you on thisamount. And then, everyone gets that exemption who falls
intothat,thatcategory. And based on the rate,thatexemption iskind of the same for
everybody. But what you'redoing here isyou're actuallygivinga bigger tax break for
homeowners who own very expensive properties, and a lower tax break for
homeowners who own lesser valued properties.
So, Iwould have likedto have seen itget questions and answered as faras what ifwe
gave a $400,000 exemption and we raisedthe ratefor,perhaps, from $2 per thousand
where itis now, to $3.50 per thousand where itwas when we lasthad a $300,000
exemption? What effectwould that have on our taxes? Well, Ican tellyou itwould
help people at the lower end much, much more, and itwould tax people at the higher
end to a greater amount.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 259
The currentscenario thatyou have rightnow, thatitseems likelyyou'llcontinue next
year, isgiving some taxpayers at the very high-end, guys who own $16 millionand
$20 millionhomes, a $150,000 plus reductionintheirproperty taxes. Now, ifyou're
intending to do that,ifthat'swhat your goal is,fine,okay? But you could end up with
the same revenue by raisingthe rateand raisingthe exemptions, so thatpeople at the
lower end are paying less. So, again, Idon'tstand against thisissue now, but Ithink
you missed a prime opportunityto understand betterhow our exemptions and our tax
ratesaffectwhat people pay on theirpropertytaxes. Thank you. Chair.
Would you likeme to move on to 22-67, I think was the other one that was in this
group?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes. Go ahead, Tom.
MR. CROLY; Okay. So, 22-67, thisisthe one relatedto asking the,the Mayor to condemn
a property up in Napili,and turn itinto a community center or something. This is
absurd, okay? There’s people who don't likethisproperty,and there's people who
don'tlikethisparticulardeveloper. Maybe Idon'teither,Idon'tknow. But it'sabsolutely
positivelyabsurd to say let'sspend perhaps $10 millionof the County's money to buy
a buildingbecause we don'tlikeit,okay, and then have itexistand continue to sitthere
and use itforsome need forthe County.
So, Iknow thatthisisactuallygoing to failintothe kuleana of the Administration. And
i expect the Administrationwillignore thisabsurd, you know, request. But, but don't
even push itthrough. This is,thisisjustsillyatthispointforyou to even be considering
this.There isno legitimatereason forthe County to be condemning thisproperty,and
giving essentiallythe owner of ita windfall,ifyou will. Because that'swhat would
happen, as faras the valuationof thispropertyifyou were to take itover at thistime.
So, I just can't express enough how bad an idea this would be. Those are my
comments on 22-67.
You did not bring up 22-62, and I'dbe happy to comment on that one when you do
bring itup later.Ijustdon't want to miss the opportunityto,to comment on thatone.
That would be it.Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? I have a question. Tom, do you have any suggestions
on what we should do with that monstrosity in Napili?
MR. CROLY: Indeed, itisa monstrosity. Indeed, Ithinkthattherewere, there were decisions
that were made in approving itthat were unwise decisions. Indeed, itlooks like
something other than what it'ssupposed to be. But what itcame forward as isa single-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 260
family home and itshould be allowed to be finishedas a single-familyhome, and we
should be enforcing laws that surround itsuse as a single-familyhome. And that'sit.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you, Tom. We’ll see you
later.
MR. CROLY: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
MR. RICK ALEXANDER (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-63. 22-64, & 22-67):
Alice?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
MR. ALEXANDER: Hello, Alice. Hello, and Rick Alexander.
MR. ALEXANDER: Yes, ma'am. I'vebeen, I'vebeen listening.And-
CHAIR LEE: Are you signed up to testify?
MR. ALEXANDER; Yeah. I,Iwas justtryingto testifyon that lasttwo items, the property
taxes and the Napiliproject.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, hold up a second, okay? Let me check with our Clerk.
MR. ALEXANDER: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, was Mr. Alexander next?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there was no other individual signed up to testifyon
Committee Reports 22-63, 64, 67. And for the record, Chair, Mr. Alexander testified
only on Committee Report 22-61 on Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so please callhim up to testifyon those other two thathe mentioned.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, itisyour turn to testify,Mr. Alexander.
MR. ALEXANDER: Okay. Firstof all,you know on the taxes,the propertytaxes,why couldn't
you folksdo, like-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 261
CHAIR LEE: Rick,we can'thear you forsome reason.
MR. ALEXANDER: Oh. Okay, can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. ALEXANDER: What Iwas tryingto say . . .where the localfamilieslive,like,you know
... inthose areas inWailuku, Kahului, certainparts of Kihei,Lahaina, you have a tax
bracket. Then when you go intothe area of Wailea, the upper class,Kapalua, certain
parts of Napili,then you have another tax bracket. That would kind of make sense,
because thatway you're taking care the localpeople and not the pilgrimsthatcome
here and misuse our system. That's,that'smy thought. So, ifyou take that in
consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. ALEXANDER: Now, now as far as the Napiliproject,okay. Idon’tthinkthe people of
Maui County should be paying thatguy Greg to take over thatpropertysituation.My
thing is,whoever did the planning inthe planning commission, or inthe permitting,first
of all,they should be firedforlettingthatthingget tothe pointwhere itis.Okay. Now,
ifanything,due tothe factthatthe contractorhimselfdidthe misapproval areas,Iwould
suggest thathe be condemned, and he has to knock itdown and make itto theway it
should be. That isthe way things should be. Ifnot,the County, the State,they have
allthe,what you call,the legalrightsto condemn things. They don'thave to buy it.
They can condemn it.
So, justgo to the past where Ukumehame. where Goodfellow and allthatothermoney
came in,they could'vecondemned thatbecause thatwas on the ocean area. Instead,
no, the people of Maui going pay. My grandkids going pay forthatproperty,which was
what, 10, almost 10 millionor whatever itwas. See, these are the problems that has
been going on foryear afteryear afteryear.
So, projectslikethat,especiallyforTamara, she's out inthatarea. And thathurtthe
localcommunity. And that'smy point.You got to take care the locals.Forgetthese
pilgrimsthatcome over here,and lessthan ten years, and they likebe on Committee,
they likebe on that. They have no clue,okay? And it'snot only happening on Maui,
it'shappening allover the place. So, that'smy suggestion. Do not spend County
money. Have the guy tear down the,to what suppose--
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 1thinkwe're losingyou. But,questions.Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 262
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
MR. ALEXANDER: ...thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Mr. Alexander, foryour testimony. Ijustwas, you
not testifyingon 22-64, the veterans tax reductionbill?
MR. ALEXANDER: Which one was that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 22-64, the veterans bill.
MR. ALEXANDER: Well, Inot familiarwith any of the numbers. Ijust,Isat on the, on this
thing because of the Waipu'ilaniproject.And so. I'vebeen listeningto allthese bills.
So, if,ifyou fillme inwith thatlittlebit,maybe Icould respond to it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The one to reduce the propertytax for disabled veterans
70 percent disabled.
MR. ALEXANDER: Oh, I'mdefinitelyforthatbecause I'm a disabled vet. So, yeah, !would
appreciate,you know, not having, you know, to take care of that,you know.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions.Members?
MR. ALEXANDER: Thank you, Tamara.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, ifnot,thank you, Rick.
MR. ALEXANDER: Okay, my pleasure.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore testifiers,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, at thistime-
CHAiRLEE: On 63, 63, 64, and 67. Right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Those three items, testimony's open rightnow and
we have received no other requests to testifyon those items. But we willdo a lastcall.
Ifthere are any individualswho would liketo testifyon either,or on Committee Reports
22-63, 64, and 67, please identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisisthe lastcallforthese
items.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 263
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto closingpublic testimony and accepting
writtentestimony on these items?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair-
CHAIR LEE: Testimony isclosed on these items. Okay, please callthem up, Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-63NO. BUDGET, FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 93 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AN
AMENDING SECTIONS 3.48.450 AND 3.48.466, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING
TO HOMEOWNER EXEMPTIONS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-63.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Molina,to approve Committee
Report 22-63.
And do we have discussion, Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 264
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on June 29, 2022, to discuss Bill93 (2022). This bill
wouid amend Sections 3.48.450 and 3.48.466, Maui County Code, to increase the
homeowner exemption fora principalhome to 300,000, and fora long-term rentaland
principalhome to 400,000, beginning January 1,2023.
Your Committee discussed the significantincrease in property valuations that has
impacted realpropertytax payments forhomeowners of principalhomes and long-term
rentalsin Maui County, and noted thatthe lastincrease was in 2006. This increase
was reversed in 2012.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage on firstreading of Bill93 (2022). I
respectfullyask forthe Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank you. Chair.
CFIAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Motion carries,
Next item, Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-64 BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTNO.
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 110. CD1 (2022),entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.48, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO HOMES OF
UNMARRIED SURVIVING SPOUSES OF VETERANS AND SEVERELY DISABLED
VETERANS," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 265
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-64.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve
Committee Report 22-64.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Budget. Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on June 29, 2022, to discuss Bill110 (2022). This bill
would amend Chapter 3.48, Maui County Code, to allow a real property tax of
50 percent of the minimum tax per year forseverely disabled veterans who are defined
as individualswho have been given a 70 percent or higher disabilityrating by the
United States Department of Veteran Affairs.
This billdecreases the required disabilityratingfrom 100 percent to 70 percent,
allowing more Maui County veterans to qualifyforthisexemption. During the meeting,
the Department of Finance said applicantsmust certifythat they own and occupy the
home to qualifyforthe exemption.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage on firstreading of Bill110 (2022).
Irespectfullyask forthe Councilmembers support of the motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. I'dliketo give a lotof
kudos to Committee Chair Rawlins-Fernandez for taking up thisbill,which Iinitiated,
very expeditiously.And also,for the inputfrom Mr. Lester and also my colleague,
Mr. Johnson. Many, many veterans and theirfamilieswillbe very much appreciative
of thisproposal. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 266
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Iriseinfullsupport ofthisbill.And Ialso
want to echo what my Councilmembers are saying about how important itisforour
disabled veterans to be taken care of. They, disabledveterans have ... problems and
government shouldn'tbe one of them, so I'm glad thatwe're going to do this.And I
think it'sreallyreflectiveon our compassion we have for the folkswho served us inthe
military.So, mahalo forallof the hard work involvedinthis.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot allthose infavor--
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Iagree with Member Molina and Member
Johnson. I'minfullsupport. Ijust,you know, Ibelievethatthere willcome a time when
we don't have more disabled veterans ifwe can stop fighting.So, you know, I look
forward to that time.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,justto echo my colleagues, Isupport the bill.Ithinkit's,
thank you. Member Molina, forbringingthisforward. Ithinkwe allhave to be aware
too, that there are disabled veterans who don't have a home, that we should be helping
out as well,thatare maybe among the houseless. And so, justto keep that in mind
that there's more work to do here in this arena. And I hope thatwe can extend the
compassion to those folksthatneed help. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: None.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Motion carries.
The next item, Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 267
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-67 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-158 .entitled"AUTHORIZING PROCEEDINGS
IN EMINENT DOMAIN FOR THE ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED
AT 5385 LOWER HONOAPIILANI ROAD. LAHAINA. MAUI, HAWAII," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-158 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Paltin,to approve Committee
Report 22-67.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Your GREAT Committee met on
June 28, 2022, to discuss Resolution 22-158, which would authorize proceedings in
eminent domain to acquire the property located at 5385 Lower HonoapiilaniRoad in
Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. And the proposed resolutionwould statethatthisstructurebe
used fora publicpurpose forHawaiian culturaleducation or any otherpublicpurposes
forconsiderationby present Administrationor futureAdministration.
Sections 46-1.5(6),and 46-61, and 46-62, and Chapter 101 of Hawaii Revised
Statutes,authorizes counties to exercise power of condemnation by eminent domain
when itisinthe public'sbest interestto do so.
And since 2021, thispropertyhas been the focus of community criticismand concern
due to the size and height of the structure and the permittingprocess thatallowed
construction to continue.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 268
And your Committee also notes the Council enacted Ordinance 5233 in2021, relating
to hoteluse and development standards inthe NapiliBay Civic Improvement District,
in response to the community's concern about this problem. I'dliketo thank my
colleague from West Maui, Member Paltin,forthat.
And Ordinance 5233, which took effectAugust 9, 2021, limitsstructuresto a maximum
oftwo storiesand 30 feetinheight,includingallappurtenances such as elevatorshafts,
stairwells,vent pipes, and antennas, and prohibitedany hotel or apartment-hotel use
unless established by August 6,2021.
And sorry to be such iongwinded on this.Madam Chair. But your Committee also
noted the Council's approval of 22-158 would approve the Administration with the
authorityto pursue eminent domain by filinga lawsuitin Second CircuitCourt on the
County's behalfto purchase the propertyinfee simple foritsfairmarket value.
So, with that said, Madam Chair, your Committee, to conclude, your Committee
supported the need to obtain community input on the futureof the property to use itin
a manner that is respectfuland reasonable to the neighboring community, while
ensuring communication and transparency, ifacquired by the County. And for
example, your Committee noted establishing a public building in West Maui for
Hawaiian culturaleducation, among other publicpurposes forthis.And also supports,
which also supports the Maui County General Plan, which directs officialsto
"perpetuate the Hawaiian culture as a vitalforce in the livesof residents"and to
"establishcenters and programs of excellence forthe perpetrationof Hawaiian arts
and culture."
Your Committee received writtenand oraltestimony, actuallyoverwhelming support
for Resolution 22-158, and voted 8-0 to recommend passing iton firstreading. 8-0
was the vote and with one recusal. Committee Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. So, I
ask forthe Members fullsupport of thismotion forthisresolution.Thank you. Madam
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: More discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. And, and I know I'm the one that put the
resolution forward, but at this time. I'd like to reconsider my own support of the
resolutionintaking feedback from, sorry. Iwasn't timingmyself,thatwas my phone.
In hearing feedback, likethe one from the testifierswe justhad, a lotof people do not
want Mr. Brown to get a payoff from taxpayer money. And you know, since the time
when thisresolutionwas put forward lastCouncil meeting, we passed a resolution
authorizing the acquisitionof Lahaina Crossroads Apartments. And you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 269
knowing thatthere'slimitedfunds, thatisthe priorityrightnow so that2020 households
don't,you know, experience negative impacts.
So, at thistime, I,!would put my fullsupport behind the Lahaina Crossroads and, and
any extra resources that we have. And, and I'veheard from the community thatthey
don'twant Mr. Brown to have a payoff. They don'twant this building. And so, you
know, if,ifwe withdraw or filethis at this time, I'llleave itto the community to decide,
likehow you said,Chair, are they going to want a culturalcenter there? Ithink Mr.
Nakoa said,you know, thisHawaiian culturalcenter willbe surrounded by not a lotof
Hawaiians in the, in the area. So, at this time, Iwould withdraw my support forthisin
order to put itfullybehind the Lahaina Crossroads acquisition,with the limited
resources thatthe County has.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,any furtherdiscussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Iam going to be votingno againstthis.Ithink
Mr. Croly, in his sound mind, speaks loudly. And I'm glad to hear Ms. Paltin,who
proposed this,is also rethinkingthat. Because during the discussion in Committee,
my question came up, like,what isthe restof the community saying? Because we did
hear loud and clear from some of the Members, even those that have organized
against it,but what about everybody else? What do they want to see forthisparcel
and use? So, I'm going to be voting no against the eminent domain and look forward
to more exploring. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I'm not going to reiterateeverything because
prettymuch Member Paltinsaid everything Iwas going to say that,you know, justin
listeningto the community, they do not want to see somebody who, who kind of played
the system, ifyou will,benefitingfrom it.And Ithink it'spremature. Iagree with the
community that this is premature, untilwe do the investigationfirst,because the
valuationmay change, depending on the outcome of that. That would be my reason
fornot supporting itat thistime. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Before I callon you. Member Paltin,anybody else have anything to say?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Iwas wondering ifitwould be possibleforme tomove toamend
the motion to recommend filing?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 270
CHAIR LEE: Well, one isto approve and the other one is to file,so I would ask Member
Molina, are you stillwanting to move forward with the, your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Well. Madam Chair,listeningto the discussion, itseems like
there'sa change in the Members, you know, proposal for this. I'm fine,as Member
Paltinas the maker of the resolution,I'llrespectwhatever she would liketo consider.
I mean, she livesinthe community, she hears from them. So, I'llleave itto Member
Paltin.Personally,I'mfinewith filingthe matter,ifthat be the case. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Committee Chair Molina.
I WOULD MOVE TO AMEND THE MOTION TO FILE IT IN
LIGHT OF. OR I'LL WAIT TILL I GET A SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member King, to filethe motion.
Yes, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: As statedinmy firstdiscussion,the priorityneeds to be Lahaina
Crossroads Apartments. You know, we're ina housing crisisand any. any monies that
we have, Iwould support going to keeping people intheirhomes. So, you know, we
got to make decisions. Ifthe community so chooses to come up with an alternative
solutionto what's going on. I'lldefinitelyentertainit.But I didn'thear the support for
paying Mr. Brown with taxpayers' money. And there wasn't a unifieddesire of what to
do withthe property.And so. that'sthe reason formy motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Member--
Mr. Clerk,you wanted to withdraw his originalmotion?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; No, Chair. I,we justwant clarityon Counciimember Paltin's
motion to amend. Is the amendment to amend the motion to file both the committee
reportand the resolution?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 271
CHAIR LEE: I'm sure. Yes.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez returnedtothe meeting at 12:07 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, thatwas my intention.Thank you, Mr. Krueger.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Eighfayes' zero "noes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the main motion as amended is now on the floor.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any furtherdiscussion? The main motion as amended now.
No? No, discussion. All those in favor of the main motion as amended, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: So, Isee nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright,Members, what do you want to do now? We have the ninthMember back. You
want to take a break?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 272
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No.
CHAIR LEE: Do you want to go forward?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Go forward while we have nine Members.
CHAIR LEE: Well,we have to thinkof staff.Imean, you know, they, they are entitledto a
break of some kind. But let'ssee, aftercommittee reports,we, we're stillnot finished
with committee reports. So, do want to startto take--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: The Charter amendments-
CHAIR LEE: -the hard ones now? You want to start take the hard ones?
Alright,so let'sgo back. Mr. Clerk,let'sfinishup any testimony on the hard ones.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Which item would you liketo startwith?
CHAIR LEE: The East Maui item.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then, at thistime. Chair,before the body is Resolution
22-119, CD1, FD1, as well as County Communication 22-167. The body did formally
close testimony on these items already.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'stake itup then.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
22-119, CDl FD1NO.
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
(1983), AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH A MAUI
NUI COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS AND AN
EAST MAUI REGIONAL COMMUNITY BOARD
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 273
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-167 - SHANE M. SINENCI. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated July 7. 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-119, CD1, FD1, a proposed
FD2 version, entitled"PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE REVISED CHARTER
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH MAUI COUNTY
COMMUNITY WATER AUTHORITIES AND AN EAST MAUI REGIONAL
COMMUNITY BOARD".
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci. Oh no, was itMember Molina first?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair. Iguess we had, Iguess the,the motion
was amended. I don't know if we took the vote on the amendment yet that was
proposed by Mr. Sinenci. Maybe Clerk can-
CHAIR LEE: No. No, we didn’t.We stopped it,we stopped it,because there was a technical
question on, he, his amend, his motion was to substitute,make a substitution,okay.
But we have been advised that before we take a vote on that substitution, Mr. Clerk,
he also wanted to make an amendment. Mr. Clerk,you can take us back to where we
were and what the next steps are.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, before the body decided to defer thismatter to laterinthe
agenda, allmotions on the item were withdrawn. So, there are no, there is no main
motion pending before the body at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: No, but please tellthem what the process should be, cause we were sortof
heading down the wrong road.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,so at thistime,the body would place a main motion on
the floor,which could be a main motion to pass on second and finalreading. And then,
any amendments that would be made could be made at that time. Councilmember
Sinenci, during the lasttime this item was brought before us, he made a motion to
substitute. When a substitution motion is on the floor,the body can make further
amendments to eitherthe originalmaterialor the materialthat'sbeing proposed inthe
substitution.But once the substitutioniscomplete, itismore difficultto make further
amendments. So, that'sjustforthe body's information.Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 274
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And I'msure you were advised of that,Mr. Sinenci, right? Okay. So
proceeding.
Proceeding, could you, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. So, basicallythisisa redo.
SO, WITH THAT BEING SAID. AS IT RELATES TO 22-119, 1
MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, FD1, ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member Molina, seconded my Member Sinenci, to pass
Resolutions 22-119, CD1, FD1, on second and finalreading. Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you. Madam Chair. For the sake of expediency, I
already mentioned what the motion was about. So, Iwillyieldthe floorfor Mr. Sinenci
forother considerations.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair,and thank you, Mr. Molina.
MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, FD1,
WITH THE PROPOSED FD2 VERSION ATTACHED TO THE
ASF POSTED FOR THIS ITEM.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member King,tosubstitutewith
FD2 version, with the FD2 version.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 275
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. I'llsummarize here, but Ican also expound
on the rationale,again, ifMembers need or would likeme to. The posted ASF isfor
the followingamendments: The resolution'stitleand throughout the resolution'sbody,
use "Maui County Community Water Authorities"instead of "Maui Nui Community
Water Systems". The sixthand seventh paragraphs, add "collective"infrontof "Maui
County Community Water Authorities".Inproposed Charter Section 8-19.1,add "grant
writers, community liaisons, and water system technical analysts" after
"administrators". And make corresponding grammatical corrections. Chair, I
respectfullyrequest the Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Could we ask Corp. Counsel whether the ASF
thatwe justreceived now, which isto amend 22-119, CD1, FD1, by using terminology
thatensures thatany administrativehead isexempt from civilserviceconsistentwith
Section 76-77 HRS. Directors are exempt from civilservice while administrators
typicallyare not. So, is this substantive? That's my question. This is,this kind of
impacts State law as well as--
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -change.
CHAIR LEE: Corp. Counsel.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: Thank you for that
question, Councilmember Sugimura. In terms of,you know, what the titleis,I don't
thinkthatthat ismaterialwhether you callthem an administratoror a director.So, the
civilservice law states that the directors or the heads ofdepartments, and a firstdeputy
or a firstassistantare exempt from civilservice.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, so it'sclarifying?Exempt from civilservice,allof our
directorsare exempt?
Like, I don't think that substitution isFIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL:
substantive.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 276
CHAIR LEE: Are there any otherquestions or furtherdiscussion, Members?
Okay. Yes, Corp. Counsel?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you, Chair. Just before you get to the
vote on the substitution, I have a small amendment that I’dliketo offer for your
consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Proceed.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Okay. So, thisisin the firstparagraph after
the "BE IT RESOLVED", and this is in the substitution bill. So, currently it'san
amendment to Section 8-11.2 of the Charter, which isthe Department ofWater Supply.
And itcurrentlyreads, thisislanguage added, "Except as set forthinchapter 19, the
department of water supply shallmanage and operate allwater systems owned by the
county." And my suggestion isto add "and may acquire or develop water sources and
systems". And the reason that I'm suggesting that isso thatthe Department ofWater
Supply can continue itscurrentduties,which do involvedevelopment ofwater sources,
such as wells,and also the acquisitionof,forexample, privatewater systems, or water
system infrastructure.Just so there'sno ambiguity that DWS can continue itsnormal
functionsas they presentlyexist.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, mahalo, Ms. Thomson. We've had
this discussion with . . . We feel that this add more clarification to the bill. We're
supportive.Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So do you want to make thatamendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SO, MOVED.
CHAIR LEE: So, moved?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 277
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member Johnson, to adopt the
recommendation of Corporation Counsel, as an amendment.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Okay. So, Mr. Clerk,we can continue to make amendments to the substitution,right?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The motion to substituteisstillon the floor. So, the
body can make motions to amend the substitutedmaterial.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Allinfavor of thisparticularsubstitution,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Alright.Then, did you have another amendment to make. Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo Chair.
FOR ONE FINAL REVISION, I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO
WAIVE RULE 19.C., WHICH STATES THAT A RESOLUTION
BEING CONSIDERED FOR FINAL READING MAY NOT BE
AMENDED AND ACTED UPON AT THE SAME MEETING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, regarding
Rule 19.C of the Council. Discussion?
CHAIR LEE:
Any more discussion, Mr. Sinenci?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 278
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCi: Thank you, Chair. Since allCharter amendments are to be
approved today to meet the logisticalrequirements for the General Election ballot,this
motion isnecessary to consider the ASF forthisitem thatwas distributedtoday. Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
Member Paltin? Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Any more amendments, Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair,
considerationof revisedterminology forthe administrativehead ofthe Water Authority,
irespectfullyask forthe Members support on thiswaiver motion. Thank you. Chair.
Waiver of Rule 19.C would allow
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any furtherdiscussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair? Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. The body already voted on the waiver of the 19.C.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Itprevailed 9-0 already.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I'msorry because he repeated himself,so Ithought okay, let'sdo itagain.
Member Sinenci, do you have any more amendments to make?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 279
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Chair. My apologies,and mahalo to Deputy Clerk,
I NOW MOVE TO FURTHER AMEND THE SUBSTITUTED
RESOLUTION 22-119, 119, BY REPLACING EACH INSTANCE
OF "ADMINISTRATOR" AND "DIRECTOR" MATCHING THE
REPLACED WORD FORM WHERE THEY'RE SINGULAR OR
PLURAL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to make those
changes as stated by Mr. Sinenci.
Furtherdiscussion? Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Members, thisproposed amendment isto
ensure thatany administrativehead isexempt from civilserviceconsistentwithHawaii
Revised Statutes Section 76-77. Directors" are exempt, while "administrators"
typicallyare not. This amendment, as the others have discussed today, does not
materiallychange the main proposal but willprovidesome needed clarification.Itwill
be helpfulto the County and the community as we continue with this Charter
amendment process. Again, thank you for your consideration and I respectfully
request the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe amendment, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 280
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Member Sinenci. Any more amendments?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That's allthe amendments, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion,Members? Okay, allthose infavor of the main motion
as amended. Okay, now--
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: -I'm going to callfora rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes?
Pending before the body right now isDEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies.
Councilmember Sinenci's motion to substitute as amended.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Sorry. Motion to substituteas amended. Allthose infavorofthe motion
raiseyour hand and say "aye". Nine-
Pro Temp Kama? Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Roll call.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thisisnot the main motion now. This isonly the substitution.Rollcall.
Mr. Clerk, rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with a rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 281
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCi, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are eight "ayes",one "no";motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now, the motion, the main motion as amended. And thiswillbe rollcall
again.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 282
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceedingwiththe main motion as amended.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: NO.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 283
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven "ayes",two "noes"; motion carries.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-167 WAS FILED LATER
IN THIS MEETING. See pages 291 and 292 fordiscussion and
action.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'smove onto the next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next one that we have on the listwas Committee
Report 22-61. Chair,for22-61, the body did close testimony on thisitem; however,
the body then immediately deferred itto laterinthe agenda. So, Councilmember Paltin
earlierbrought up a pointas to whether the body should continue accepting testimony
at thistime. Ibelievethatisup foryou, as the body, to decide.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, just,you know, ifthere isanyone out there,I'dratherbe
safe than sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk,callup any testimony before we close it.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. So, Chair,just,justfor.forour clarity,the body is,without
objections,accepting furthertestimony on Committee Report 22-61 ?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Then, we willcall,and ifanybody elsewants to testifyon
Committee Report 22-61 at thistime,we are doing a lastcallforthat.We do not have
anyone else currentlysigned up who wishes to testifyon 22-61. But again,thisisa
lastcall.Ifyou want to testifyon thisitem,please identifyyourselfnow.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closingtestimony,publictestimony,and accepting
writtentestimony on CR 22 dash, 22-61. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 284
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk,please callitup.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-61 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 22-131. CD1 .entitled 'APPROVING WITH MODIFICATIONS
THE INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI
WORKFORCE HOUSING PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY
CODE," be ADOPTED:
1.
entitled "APPROVING THE INDEPENDENT22-1302. That Resolution
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE." be FILED; and
That Resolution 22-132 . entitled "DISAPPROVING THE INDEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HALE WAIPU'ILANI WORKFORCE HOUSING
PROJECT UNDER CHAPTER 2.97, MAU! COUNTY CODE," be FILED.
3.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-132, DISAPPROVING
THE HALE WAiPU'lLANl HOUSING PROJECT, AND TO FILE
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-61.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member King,toadopt the resolution
CR, to approve Committee Report 22-61.
And discussion, Mr. Johnson.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 285
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. Members, your Affordable Housing
Committee met on June 6 and 13, 2022, to consider the proposed Hale Waipu'ilani
Workforce Housing Projectby developer Van Bruce Investments.
The projectwillconsistof eighttwo-storybuildingswith two one-bedroom units,eight
two-bedroom units, and 18 three-bedroom units for sale to households earning
between 18 [sic]and 140 AMI.
Under Chapter 2.97, the Council must approve, approve with modifications, or
disapprove with the proposed projectwithin 60 days afterthe project'ssubmittal.
Because the 60-day deadline fall,fallson a weekend, the legal deadline under
Section 1.04.020, Maui County Code, isJuly 18, 2022.
Your Committee received comments on the projectthrough publictestimony and from
various County agencies, including Department of Housing, Human Concerns,
Planning, PublicWorks, and Water Supply.
Your Committee discussed concerns about floodingand drainage, trafficcongestion,
projectdensity,cost of the units,and possibledisturbance to wetlands and or cultural
assets.
Although thisProjectwould provide 28 residentialworkforce housing units.I'mhearing
loud and clearfrom the testifiersabout the ongoing concerns, particularlythe frequent
floodingand drainage issues,and the relatedhealth-safetyand monetary implications.
Ibelievedevelopers also heard thisconcern from the beginning and decided to ignore
the voice of the community and carry on regardless.
As Chair of the Affordable Housing Committee, I wholeheartedly support more
affordablehousing . . .and Ican say thatthisCouncil also does thatas well. 1fight
hard and strong for it,but as they say in the real estate world, "location,location,
location". I'dalso add to that,"price,price,price",which are the highest ends of the
workforce AMI.
Plus, the riskmay be too great on our workforce familiesand on the environment.
When your hairison fire,you don'tput itout with the wetlands.
Members, thisishard, but Ibelieve that the rightthing to do isdisapprove the project
and filethe CR. Iask forthe Members fullsupport of my motion.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 286
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Furtherdiscussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I concur with Member Johnson. And you know, we've
been doing wetland restorationin South Maui for a couple of years now. The wetland
restorationhas been expanding. We have more experts on wetlands, which isone of
the reasons why we've got the wetland preservation billinfrontof us. And Idon'tthink
there'sany doubt inanybody's mind thatthisisa wetland. Ialso don'tthinkthere'sany
doubt in anybody's mind that we support affordable housing as Mr. Johnson said.
Sometimes there'sinappropriatelocationsforcertainprojects,and thisisone ofthem.
Nothing personal, and we've allsaid that against the developer. But itdoesn't,it
doesn't follow that every single projectthat comes before us is going to be totally
appropriate, and this is one that just doesn't fallinto that category of appropriate
affordablehousing location,or even the design of being thathigh up ina floodzone.
So, I'velooked at.I'velooked at other projectswhere Idid see some NIMBYism and
I'vesupported the project. This is not one of them. You know, justbecause people
don'twant itintheirneighborhood doesn'tmean it'sa good idea,and thateverything's
automaticallyNIMBYism.
So, we have to look at these projects,we're tryingto builda community, not justfillin
housing wherever there'sentitledland. And thisis reallynot appropriate. So, I'm
hoping thatwe can move forward with some kind of a land swap. Itmay take longer,
but the time spent working on thatwillbe worth it,because we'llget,you know, we'll
be, we'llbe alleving/s/cjthiscommunity of furtherharm, and we'llbe respectingthe
floodzone and the wetland area. And hopefullywe'llbe abletofindsomething suitable.
But that'smy, that'smy assessment of itafterapproving,you know, the previousfive
affordablehousing projectsforSouth Maui thatthisone.
And, and I'dalso want to point out that so did the Kihei Community Association,and
the South Maui Advisory Committee supported other projectsin,inour district.This is
reallythe firstone they've come out against. And ithas nothing to do with the
developer. Ithas everythingto do with the location.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
Yes, Mr. Clerk, first.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 287
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Apologies to interject,Chair.We would justliketo request clarity
on what the motion isbefore the body at thistime?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson, would you liketo repeatyour motion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Icertainlywill.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-132, DISAPPROVING
THE HALE WAIPUJLANI HOUSING PROJECT, AND TO FILE
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-61.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Is that sufficient,Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, willthe filingalso include the filingof the other two
resolutions attached, Resolutions 22-130 and 22-131, CD1?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Certainly,ifthat'sappropriate.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,furtherdiscussion? Mr. Sinenci had hishand up. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, yeah, justwanted to quicklyspeak insupportof the
motion. 1thinkyesterday,throughout the Pae ‘AinaO Hawaii Nei,we've seen a huge
south swell that affected allof our south shores. And we've also heard the testifiersof
the, the dangers of floodingin South Maui. So, 1 vote to disapprove. It'salso my
commitment to lookingmore intodrainage, betterdrainage systems inSouth Maui.
Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Member Molina and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Firstof all,you know, Iwant to
thank the developer,Mr. Carnicelli.You know, they have good intentions,and it’sjust
one of those unfortunate cases with regards to location,as has been mentioned by
some of our,some of my fellowcolleagues.
You know, the projectitselfisa good one and, but the residentswho willbe impacted
by thisprojecthave spoken loud and clearto us,thisisnotsomethingtheywould want.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 288
And I would hate to see something that could create some divisiveness. But the
landowner certainlyhas other options thatwe can consider. And, you know, we have
tojustmove forward withthatifthe vote isto approve thisproject.
But again, thank the developer, and Mr. Carnicelli,and everyone else involved fortheir,
tryingto do theirpart to provide more affordable housing. And it'sjust one of those
unfortunate set of circumstances. And also, forthe residents who came out to express
theirthoughts on thisproject.Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I'm going to speak against the motion. I
support thisprojectmoving forward. Unfortunately,the experience shared by many
people, when itled me to, I already talked to my staffof taking up, I took up the
December 5th floodingas itrelatedto Kula and my community, because that'swhat I
heard a loud cry for. And that we're going to be taking up thisfrom, forthe whole
ahupua'a. So, we'lllook atthe floodingsituationthatwas expressed as a Committee,
in my Committee, InfrastructureTransportation.
I'm going to be speaking infavor of keeping thisprojectgoing,because we do need
affordablehousing. Iknow the developers have expressed thatthey can, because it
isalreadyentitledto have market ratehomes built.And ifthat'swhat we have to end
up in thisparcel to satisfyour affordablehousing, our housing needs, then I guess
that'swhat may happen. So, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Chair,Iwillbe votingagainstthe motion. You
know, we say thatwe shouldn'tletperfectbe the enemy of good, and sometimes that
happens more oftenthan not. But I'malsovery concerned about allofthe people that
are leavingMaui, because every moment and every day thatgoes by, itgets harder
and harder forthem. And so, every time we put offa project,we're puttingofffivemore
years, sixmore years, seven more years, and the need isso great. It'sa great need.
So, Irealizethatthe decisions thatthisCouncil makes isgoing to be the life-and-death
of otherpeople. And forme, Ichoose life.Ichoose togiveour peoplean opportunity.
Ifthey want 28 familiesifthey'dliketo move in,they couldchoose to. Ifpeople choose
notto,they can choose notto also. But we should givethem theopportunitytochoose,
because itistheirlifethat'son the line,not ours, not the neighbors,not the people who
livearound there. They've been livingwith those conditionsforyears. We've heard
them. So, why not give others the opportunitybefore the crisisgetsso beyond us,that
notjustMr. Johnson's hair'sgoing to be on fire,everybody'shairwillbe on fire.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 289
And we talk about location, location, location. We're talking about relocation,
relocation,relocationof our people. When isthat going to stop? Ithurts when your
childrencan'tcome home. Ithurtswhen your grandchildrendon'thave a place to live.
How many generations of our people isthisgoing to have to happen before we all
decide that we're going to do something? I can'tin good conscious. Chair, vote in
support of this.And those are my comments. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. As Imentioned invotingout of Committee,
thiswas a reallytough one forme. And itcontinues to be difficult,because you know,
my preference is ifwe're not providingaffordablehousing,thatwe're not allowing
development at all,and inthatway, saving the wetlands.
Ijust,you know, forfolksout there listening,Ithinkwhatever isdevelopedthereshould
have a requirement. Ifan SMA permit isto be gotten,thatinlightofwhat'sgoing on
globallywith climatechange and whatnot, thatdrainage requirementsshould include
for a 100-year storm, ratherthan a 50-year storm, cause we're seeing the 100-year
storm more frequently.
And the otherpointIwanted to make. I’lllikelyfollowthe leadofthe area representative
and the Affordable Housing Chair, but the South Maui Community Plan coming up is
going to be criticalto everyone. Because what happened inWest Maui is,thisisnota
change inzoning,Ibelievewe're going for,or maybe itis,butthroughthe West Maui
Community Plan, residentialis residential.They've taken away R-1, R-2, R-3, R-0.
Residential is residential.And so, ifyou do not want to have a projectlikethis,pay
good attentionto the South Maui community planning process,because residentialis
residential.There isnot the 7500, 10,000 square foot properties.
So, thisisnot the end oftestimony forfolksopposing thisproject.You need to be very
involvedinyour communities, community planninggoing forward.Thank you.Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Okay, 1 am going to justsay thatI'llbe voting"no",because
there'sgoing tobe eitheraffordablehomes builtthereormarkethomes builtthere,and
I choose affordable.
So, ready forthe vote? Mr. Clerk,rollcall.
Regular Meeting oftheCounciloftheCounty of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 290
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceedingwitha rollcallvote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: KANALUA.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawiins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.CHAIR LEE:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are six "ayes", three "noes";motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 291
CHAIR LEE: Well,well,we have to go back to,we have to go back to Member Paltin.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Oh, apologies. Councilmember Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are six"ayes",three "noes";motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please callup the next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, the next item that was marked as, oh apologies. Chair,
justrealquickly,County Communication 22-167 was not disposed of inany way. So
at thistime,does the body have a dispositionforthat item?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci? 22-167, did you say, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, isMr, Raatz? Iwasn't sure ifwe need to fileit.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I MOVE TO FILE CC 22-167.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, there's a motion to file22-167 by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member Sinenci.
Any discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 292
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes' zero "noes"; motion carries.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the items remaining that were marked to be separated
are Resolutions 22-144, CD1, FD1; and Bill21, CD1, FD1 (2022). Which one would
you liketo proceed with?
CHAIR LEE: 22-144, CD1, FD1.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with testimony for Resolution 22-144,
CD1, FD1. Chair,the firstperson signed up to testifyon thisitem isDave Deleon. To
be followed by Tom Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. DAVE DELEON (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FDD:
It'snice to be back with you guys again.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. DELEON: Thank you forthisopportunityto testifyinoppositiontothe Resolution22-144,
to dissolve the Maui Planning Commission and replacing with six new planning
commissions based on community plan districts.I'm Dave Deleon and I'veserved on
the recent Maui Charter Commission. Charter Commission seriously reviewed a
similarproposal,and ultimatelyrejectedit.My personal oppositiontothisconcept was
based on the numerous testimony we received pointingout the inefficiencyof replacing
our existingplanning commission with sixnew planning commissions.
The Planning Department's opposition to thisproposal was quiteinformative.The
change would be quite expensive for staff.Itwould be, therewould not be enough
business to justifythe existence of most of these bodies. Itwould be difficultforthe
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 293
staffto staffthem with adequately trainedcommissioners. And because of competing
rules and overlapping jurisdictions,there was a real opportunity for regulatory
confusion and jurisdictionalchaos.
The Administrationhas been pointingout a recentmajor reduction incitizenswillingto
serve on boards and commissions. This proposal would resultin six new 7-member
commissions, as I understand it. And it would be, therefore require another
33 commissioners over the nine we already have.
The Charter Commission ultimatelyadopted a proposal,which thisCouncil modified
and endorsed, that addressed the needs to, the need to assure that every Maui
community is represented on the existing planning commission. The Charter
Commission accepted the Council'smodificationsand isnow set to be on the ballotin
November.
So, given the Council'sacceptance of the,of the existingballotproposal, itisbaffling
to findthisnew proposal before the Council. This proposal isinabsolute conflictwith
the existingaccepted ballotproposal. Ifboth were to be accepted by the voters,as the
Corporation Counsel has pointed out, result would be a legal,would be legal
challenges that could conceivably shut down the County's permit approving process,
as well as planning reviews, untilthe courts decides who's incharge.
And then there'sthe problem with the ballotquestion itself,which failsto declare that
this proposal willgive the Council broad new powers to micromanage these new
commissions. Under our Charter,the planning,planning isan administrativefunction.
Why isthe Council attemptingto give itselfthiskind of a new authority?And why isn't
thatnew authoritymentioned inthe ballotproposal? The November ballotalready has,
we already have a lotof expansion on the November ballot.We don'treallyneed this
one as well. So, Idon't reallyhear a good reason to do so. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Members, are there any questions ofthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you very much.
Do we have another testifier?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testifyisTom Croly.
MR. TOM CRQLY (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Aloha, Council. Tom Croly speaking on my own behalf. Speaking as someone who
has attended, Icalculateabout 350 planning commission meetings, Ican tellyou that
Ithinkthe Maui Planning Commission isadequate to do the job thatisbefore them,
and thatcreatingthese multipleplanning commissions isa monumentally bad idea. I
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 294
know what's behind it.What's behind itisthatmany people are unhappy with decisions
that are made by the Maui Planning Commission often,because sometimes those
decisions are unpopular, and they don’treflectthe bulk of the testimony thatthey got.
But Iwould liketo submit that it'snot, it'snot a popularitycontestwhen something goes
before the planning commission. The planning commission's job isto evaluate whether
or not the applicationin frontof them isconsistent with the laws. Asking forthere to
be more planning commissions means many more people are going to have to be
trained in the law, and understand the law, and Idon't thinkthatthat'sgoing to happen.
Ithinkyou'regoing to end up with more decisionsbeing made justbecause someone's
gut says Idon't likethisparticularproposal. And then, the County isgoing to be sued
more often by the developer or the person seeking the permit before the commission,
because the commission didn't follow the law.
I stand so wholeheartedly against thisidea. And then, as Dave has already pointed
out,it'swrong to present the voterswithtwo differentproposals regardingthe planning
commissions. And forpeople who are not as well-versedatwhat'sgoing on inCounty
government, itputs them ina difficultpositionto understand why are you presenting
me with one idea about planning commissions and another idea about planning
commissions on the same ballot? Itwould make itconfusing overall.
And Ihope thatallof the Members did take a look at the memo thatyou got,the letter
that you got from Corporation Counsel, because they're basicallyfundamental legal
reasons why thisshouldn'tbe done.
But again,with my experience justsitting,observing the planning commissions foras
many years as Ihave, Ican tellyou there isnot a need forthere to be more planning
commissions. It'snot a matter thatthe planning commissioners don't understand the
areas thatthey'revotingon. They fullyunderstand when they'remaking a vote inKihei,
that it'sKihei, and what our issues are, or West Maui, or Central Maui, whatever. So,
again, I,Iwould not liketo see thismove onto the ballot.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions forclarification?Ifnot,thank you very much. Thanks, Tom.
And so, Mr. Clerk,are there any more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testifyis,apologies,
there are individualssigned up to testifybut we need to confirmthatthey didn'ttestify
on the item on Friday. Okay, then, the next testifiersigned up to testifyon thisitem is
David Dorn.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 295
MR. DAVID DORN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-144 GDI FDD:
Hello, Councilmembers. This is David Dorn here.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MR. DORN: And Iwould liketo testifyregarding the community planning decisions. This is
extremely important for allthe reasons that we've heard before. 1 didn'ttestifyon
Friday, because Iwas involved in the other one. But we need localrepresentation.
You can see the picture behind me. Kihei problems are not the same as Kuta
problems, as Lahaina problems, or the other areas, Molokai problems. We are very
unique down here.
Our current planning commission does not have any people that liveinthe Kiheiarea.
And with respectto allthe Councilmembers, not many ofyou are familiarwiththisarea
either.So, you know, one maybe is.So, we need localrepresentationsforlocalissues.
Junya gave a great testimony regardingthat,1thinkon Friday.And we know what the
problems are,so thatwe can have a littlebitof an insightintothe solutions.
Commissioners do not need to know the law. I've been to many planning commission
meetings, and they have Corp. Counsel on hand to explain to them, you know. . . .
enough they justsay your understanding ofthe law and that,you know, the Maui Island
Plan and everythingiswhat you should vote on. So, it'sbasicallyentirelysubobjective
. . .the planning commissioners are using theirknowledge to make these decisions.
We need a localrepresentation.That's basicallyit.
The currentplanning commission isa terriblemisrepresentationof our community. It's
fullof realestate agents, union lobbyists,and constructionreps. And it'svery hard to
get a word in edgewise. And they basicallydon't listento any testimony from the
community. They say you're exaggerating, you're lying. They say the community
comes out every time there'sa constructionprojectand throw shade on it.And thatis
not the community ... the Administration.
We need localrepresentation. We need one for each district.And you'llhave no
troublefillingthatup with highlyexperienced people from the community, cause they
would love to have theirvoice heard and represent theirlocalcommunities. So, let's
do it.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members.
Member King.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 296
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here, Mr. Dorn. I,Itotally
agree with you. We had 38 people apply for CPAC, for,for South Maui, so there's
definitelyinterest.Have you yourselfbeen at any of these, the Maui County Planning
Commission meetings, where you saw thatthe majoritywas not being heard?
MR. DORN: Oh, yes, multipleoccasions. And it's,it'svery disheartening and itmakes you
want to not go to these meetings. The way they'rerun isvery disruptivetoo. You don't
have an opportunity like,you know, committee meetings, where you can testifyat the
beginning. We spent ailday there to give our three minutes of testimony and they
outrightignore you. They are rude. They make testifierscry. And they shove your
own testimony back down your throat.So, it'snot good.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Any more questions for Mr. Dorn? Ifnot,thank you
very much. Let'shave the next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the lastperson we have signed up to testifyon Resolution
22-144 is Rick Alexander.
CHAIR LEE: Rick,are you~
MR. RICK ALEXANDER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Hello, there?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, Rick, we're here.
MR. ALEXANDER: Yeah, I've been watching everything. And as far as the Planning
Commission goes, Idefinitelythinkthatyou don'thave the righttype of people inthere.
And likeDave said about, you know, you get allthese, like,union agents or different,
differentgroups, lobbyiststhatthey only looking out forcertainindividualsand not the
neighborhoods itself.Now, years and years ago, Iwent to a lotof meetings back in
the day, and I'veseen how things can get corruptand one-sided. And you know, Ihate
to bring itup, but definitelyKihei was one of those places when Mr. Betsillhad some
tiesintothat.So, regardlessofthat,the way Ilook at itisyou should have people from
each district,like,say Kula, Makawao, Lahaina, Napili,Kihei-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Alexander? Your bars look strong. Mr. Alexander, we can'thear you.
MR. ALEXANDER: Oh. Can you hear me now?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 297
CHAIR LEE; Yeah but you, now you'regettingweaker.
MR. ALEXANDER; Oh, Igettingweaker? Must be people don'twant-
CHAIR LEE; Are you moving around, or are you inone place?
MR. ALEXANDER; No. I'mjustsittinghere at my desk. Excuse me. So, my pointisthat
you guys should re-evaluate.And firstof all,whoever ison thatboard should ... not
someone who's less than, at least 10-15 years on the island. That'sthe number one
thing.And then,the type ofpeople thatare on there,they should be community people,
likemy neighbor, Dave Dorn. Isuggested that he go on the board, because he has
such a knowledgeable experience in communication, you know. Not likeme, 1get,I
get differentways of communicating. And, you know, Alice,you know me, you stay
laughing. And most of you know me.
But the thing is,like,you know, as the years came on with my PTSD, it'seven more
struggles,you know? And then, but,you know, I,IbelievethatMaui County isway,
way, way back ofschedule as faras a lotofthings.And the community planningshould
reallystudy before lettingany more differentthingscome in. Just look at the airport
rightnow. Just look at,look at the weather. Just. ..lookatfrom Suda Store now. ..
. are the thingsthatwe talked about. Now, when you letdevelopments happen, like
how, likeI said, I no likebe a ... but when they backfillwetlands, likeMeadowlands
and the other projects,you justmess up things. So, you gottado infrastructure.Key
isdrainage on Piilani,Upper PiilaniHighway, they should make likecatchment basin.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Rick,Rick,you need tofinishup, okay?
MR. ALEXANDER; Okay. Okay, sorry. But the planning commission should reallybe looked
at and puttingthe righttype of people there,basically,likeDavid said. Okay, thank
you very much, you people.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Any questions? Ifnot,thank you, Rick.
MR. ALEXANDER; Okay. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Next testifier.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testifyon Resolution22-144 is
Kai Nishiki.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 298
MS. KAI NISHIKI (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-144 CD1 FDD:
Hi. Good afternoon, Chair and Committee Members. 1testifyhere infullsupport. I
willjust relay my experience before the Maui Planning Commission as Chair of the
West Maui Community Plan Advisory Committee. And you know, our West Maui
community reallyput a lotof effortintothe community plan. And when itcame before
the Maui Planning Commission, itwas, they triedto change a lotof the thingsthatwe
worked reallyhard on. And itseemed thatthere was one ...standing to the specific
issues facingWest Maui. And then, there was a concerted effortby members of the
real estate and construction industries to take out things in the community plan that
they weren't happy with. So, you know, there'sthat. So, itwould be good to have area
representativesmaking decisions about, about thatarea.
And there is almost never a lack of interest for boards and commissions, especiallyfor
the Planning Commission. And so, Idon'tthinkthatthere would be an issue withthat.
And inaddition,the Planning Commission isthe authorityor acts as the authorityinall
matters relatingto coastal zone management law. And at thistime, itseems, and for
many years, itseems thatthere isa lack of expertise in that area. So, you know, I
hope that there willbe effortsto change that,and require at least one seat in every
districthave a background incoastalzone management, and coastalprocesses. So,
thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you, Kai. Questions, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Kai. Thanks forbeing here,testifying.
Ijustwanted to clarify,Ithought I heard you say you didn'tthinkthere would be any
shortage of people who want to serve on a community planning commission.
MS. NISHIKI: Absolutely not. I mean, likeyou said, in South Maui, there'sjust tons of
applications. People are very, very interestedin having inputintowhat isgoing on in
their,intheircommunities. So, absolutely. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thanks forbeing here. Thank you. Chair,
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you, Kai.
MS. NISHIKI: Thank you. See you a littlelater.Mahalo.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15. 2022
Page 299
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon
Resolution 22-144, CD1, FD1. We willdo a last callat thistime. Ifthere are any
individualswho have not testifiedon thisitem already, but would liketo do so, please
identifyyourselfnow. Again, thisisour lastcallforthisitem.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objectionsto closing publictestimony and accepting written
testimony forthe record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. So, ordered.
Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Prior to getting into
discussion on thismatter,would there be any considerationto maybe justtake a quick
break forstaffand ourselves to,Iguess, get something to nourish ourselves? As you
had mentioned earlier,we're going to be doing a "work through lunch" kind of deal.
Either,you know, or justafterthe discussion or vote on thismatter. Just ask foryour
consideration of that.
CHAIR LEE: What did,what did you have inmind, likethirtyminutes?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, not even that. Idon't know--
CHAIR LEE: Twenty minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ten, fifteenminutes, whatever.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson, suggestion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair,if,I'm okay with it,but I'mjustconcerned about the
time we were planning to end today. I,my understanding was 2 p.m. was a hard
deadline for us, isthat correct? Because that would only give us about 45 minutes left,
which, but I don't know ifthat'sthe hard deadline. So, I,before we do that,I'm just
curious ifwe are ending at 2?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 300
CHAIR LEE: Well,let'sput itthisway. we have two hard issues to deal with,and the restare
Ibelieveprettymuch routine.So--
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, would we be able to do two and then maybe, you know
put everything lateron, ifthat'sthe goal?
CHAIR LEE: I don’tknow, I don'tknow how long thattwo willtake. Any other thoughts,
Members? Suggestions? You want to take a break now, or you take,take one of the
hard ones then take a break for 15 minutes?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,yeah, Ithinkwe should go ahead and finishthisitem,and
then see where we're at timewise afterwe get done, the item thatwe're on rightnow.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objectionsto that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, Iconcur with Member King.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Member, Imean, Mr. Clerk,please bring up the item.
RESOLUTIONS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
RESOLUTION
22-144, CPI, FD1NO.
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 8
OF ARTICLE 8 OF THE REVISED CHARTER OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),AS AMENDED,
TO ESTABLISH PLANNING COMMISSIONS FOR
ALL COMMUNITY PU\N AREAS ON MAUI AND
DISSOLVE THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina,thisyours?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank, thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-144, CD1, FD1, ON
SECOND AND FINAL READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 301
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member King, to pass the Resolution
22-144 on second and finalreading.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This resolutionwould place on the
next General Electionballotthe question of whether the Charter should be further
amended, effectiveJuly 1,2023, to establishplanning commissions forallcommunity
plan areas on Maui and dissolvethe Maui Planning Commission.
Your proposed Charteramendment would promote home ruleinland use and planning
by givingeach of Maui's six community plan areas itsown planning commission.
As noted at firstreading,thisproposal would amend the same Charter section as the
Charter Commission proposal, but that itis not uncommon for multiple proposals
amending the same Charter section be on the same ballot.
AllsuccessfulCharter amendments must be read inharmony with each other,as has
happened throughoutthe County's history,except when the Charter Commission and
the Council have competing alternativesunder Chapter 50, Hawaii Revised Statutes,
inwhich case onlythe proposal withthe largestamount, or largestnumber of votes is
given effect.The County Clerk isotherwise empowered and obligatedto give effectto
each proposed Charter amendment thatreceivesa majorityvote,
Legal action has not been required in the past to determine how to incorporate
approved Charter amendments intoan updated Maui County Charter aftera General
Electionand it'snot requiredhere. Iask forthe Members support ofthismotion. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Further,any discussion?
Yes, Mr. Sinenci. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 302
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo to Member Molina for that explanation. Iwas, I did
have a question for the Clerk, ifthisCharter amendment willbe an alternativeto the
Charter amendment number 4? But itsounds likeit'lljust be who gets the highest
votes, which one gets the highest votes?
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. That's our current understanding at the moment.
We wouldn'tinterpretitas, like,an alternative,likethe other alternativesthatthe body
proposed when you were consideringthe Charter Commission's proposals. But yes,
ifthere are competing, competing proposals on the ballot,our currentunderstanding
isthatthe largestvote-receiverwould be the one that would be incorporated intothe
Charter. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questionsor comments?
Yes, Corp. Counsel.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you verymuch. Chair Lee. We are not
certainthatthatwould be the outcome. There's no provision in how to handle a, two
Charter amendments thatare opposed to one another. We do believe that we would
need to seek court interventionto help us interpretwhich one is adopted and which
one isnot. It's,we don'tthinkthatitwould be simply the one that got the most votes,
although thatmay be what a courtwould decide.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.Chair.And thank you. Member Molina, for,you know,
doing the,the research on that,because Iknow, you know, both of us asked fora PAF
and thatwas, and you, you followedup withthat.So, Chair,maybe we could ask David
Raatz to,you know, give hisopinion?
CHAIR LEE: David,are you on the call? Yes, David,did you hear the question?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Yes. Thank you. Chair Lee. As
Councilmember Molina mentioned, this,thisproposal is the Council's own Charter
amendment. It'snot actuallyan alternativeto any of the Charter Commission
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 303
proposals, that'sa separate process that'sset-up. And you willsee on the General
Election ballot based on the process that's already concluded with the Charter
Commission, therewillbe some alternativeson specificissues,where eithera Charter
Commission proposal, or a County Council proposal willget approved based on the
most number of votes on that particularsubjectwhere there isan alternative.This is
a separate process under the Charter that, and that'sthe case for allthree of the
Charter amendments that have been considered today. And ifany of the Charter
amendments that the Council initiatesget a majorityvote, then they'llbe deemed
approved.
And Office of Council Services is confident we can work with the Officeof the County
Clerk and the Department of the Corporation Counsel to produce an updated Charter
based on any Charter amendments approved by the electorateon November 8,
without requiringjudicialaction. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Just want to thank the membership for,the
Members forgettingthisproposal to thispoint. For many of us on the islandof Maui,
in our communities, thisisan equityissue. And, you know, for many years, we have
seen an overwhelming majorityof Wailuku residentson the Charter Commission, I
mean, on the Planning Commission. And as you've heard from our communities, we
don't often fee! heard, in fact,most of the time we don't feel heard.
When projectsare approved based on some kind ofa island-wideneed and not looking
at the immediate area that they're going into,itputs the community at a severe
disadvantage. And you know, the timing is reallygood for this, the planning
commission, because we are going intothe process ofthe community plan,the South
Maui Community Plan.
Itwas astounding to see 38 applicationsforthe CPAC, the Community Plan Advisory
Committee. And itgives me a lotof hope thatit'snot justour community, but also West
Maui, East Maui and Paia-Haiku willhave similar reaction to a planning commission in
theirareas. People want to be involved inthe futuredestiny and they have not been.
So, I,I urge the Members fullsupport of this,to put iton the ballotand letthe people
decide ifthey want representation intheircommunities. And let'sstop withholding that
representation. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 304
CHAIR LEE: Members, any furtherdiscussion?
Yes, Corp. Counsel?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you, Chair. So, Ijustwanted to just
draw the Members' attentionto our July 14th memo. We went through a very extensive
analysisof,you know, both the Charter Commission's proposal and also thisproposal
by Councilmember King.
We do not agree with OCS at this point that both proposals, ifapproved, can be
harmoniously read. There are certainprovisionsin Councilmember King's proposal
also that,you know, convey significantpowers thathaven't been fullydiscussed.
One ofthe thingsIdid want to,you know, Iwon't go over the memo, but Section 7. It's
8-8.4.7,thatthese are the powers reserved to Council. And one of the most important
powers reserved to Council would be to increase or decrease the number of planning
commissions. The firstsection of the bill,also, does not only eliminate the Maui
Planning Commission, but iteliminatesthatsectionthat includes the Molokai and Lanai
Planning Commissions. There are other references to those planning commissions in
8-8.4 that are remaining.
But thatbroad power under section,Subsection 7 would mean thatthe futureCouncils
can allocatejurisdiction,not only in,you know, for the community plan areas, but
potentiallysubjectmatterjurisdictionbetween differentplanning commissions thatcan
be created at some pointlaterby ordinance. So, thank you very much forthe time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I'm going to vote against this. Hearing Dave
Deleon, who is,or was, Iguess they stillare,but the currentCharter Commission, and
hearing theirdiscussion,Isupport what the Charter Commission put forward. And I
believethatwhat we're proposing now willwork against the good effortsthatwere put
in by the Charter Commission and the amendments thatwe did when we reviewed it.
And so, therefore.I'm going to be voting against thisproposal as itsitsbefore us.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 305
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Itoo,willalso be votingagainstthisproposal.
We've justheard from Corp. Counsel the unintended consequences that could occur
and the conflictsthatthese two proposals are going to come. And we're going to have
our people determine what they should or should not vote for,and whether or not they
even understand what itis. And you know, our job isto make the livesof our people
easier, not harder. We're supposed to lifttheirburdens of their shoulders. And
sometimes itjustseems as ifwe're adding more stuffto them. That's not what we're
here to do. At leastthat'snot why I'm here.
And so, you know, I,today was hard, lastweek was hard. But you know, itiswhat
we’re elected to do, to do the hard stuff.And not whether or not we're going to win or
lose an election,or whether or not what we say isrightand good foreveryone, not just
forthose who speak the loudestand those who come. Because the people who don't
come are our localpeople, who are working two or threejobs, tryingto get theirfamily
situated,tryingto make a livinghere in Hawaii, and they're drowning. They're
drowning.
Iknow thata lotofthem are my family.I'vegot choke kids,choke grandkids. They're
drowning and Idon'twant to be responsibleforanyone, my kids,grandkids, or even
your kids or grandkids forhaving such a hard lifeifwe don't help them to make some
decisionseasy on them. That'swhat Iwas taught,to take the burdens offour people.
And ifwe have to carrythem, we carry it.And I'm okay with that.Chair. But I'm not
votingforthisproposal. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? I'lljustsay thatI,too,am not--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Sorry,my video isn'tworking.
CHAIR LEE: You want to starttalking?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Isupported this. Yeah, there’sa delay because of
the phone. I supported this proposed Charter amendment because i understood
Section 7, givingthe Council the power to increase or decrease the number of planning
commissions on Maui to rightsize it,perhaps not one in every district,but perhaps a
group of districts.But Inow understand that itdoes not give the Council that power to
establish. Itgives the Council the power to establishtransitionalrules only, and not
increase and decrease as was stated in Mr., by Mr. Forrest in Committee, and
Ms. Thomson today.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 306
I,Idon'tagree with some of the assessments thatwas shared in testimony. What I
see isthe trust,and confidence, and the integrityof the commission that has been
eroded because it'snot clearthatdecisions are being made above financialinterests,
individuals'financialinterests,or groups offinancialinterests.Itisa selectionprocess
that isnot servingthe largercommunity.
The Charter Commission has approved an amendment to establish an independent
selection Committee to address this problem. In 2017, our Molokai Planning
Commission were, consisted of nine Molokai residents. But there was obvious
financialinterestinthem votingto approve projectsand STR permits. That year, a
group of us community members demanded the Commission Chair step down. He
took itfurtherand resigned from the Commission and immediately after,four other
commissioners also resigned from the Commission. So, even though the Commission
consistedentirelyof Molokai residents,itwas apparent that residency didn'tmatter as
much in the decision-making as financialinterest,as itseems with the case of the
currentMaui Planning Commission.
I, I agree that geographic representationis absolutely important, and that the
amendment thatthe Charter Commission has approved to be included on the ballot,
thatevery districtwould be requireda seat. So, I'msorry to those thatsupported this
proposal. 1,Idid support thisproposal,but that'smy reason forchanging my position
at thistime. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair,are you coming to the building?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. I'm on Oahu, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Isee. Okay. Alright.Any, any furtherdiscussion? I,too,willbe voting
againstit.Ithink,Iunderstand the reasoning. Ithinkthere's,there are merits to that.
But I believethatthe voter,the average voter isgoing to become confused with the
two Charter amendments proposed. And I do wonder ifthere's not some kind of
contradiction in there. So, Mr. Clerk, rollcall.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with a roilcallvote.
Counciimember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 307
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
Apologies --
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry,Ididn'thear--
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: --Councilmember Tamara--
CHAIR LEE: I'msorry,Ididn'thear you. Did you say "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you said "no". Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding OfficerPro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 308
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS
AND SINENCI.
JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, PALTIN, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are four"ayes",five"noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, Members, what do you want to do? The, the next big one willbe
the lightbill.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies,Chair. The Resolution22-144 isstillbefore the body
for some other action to be taken.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what other action? The filing?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The body could consider recommittal,or filing,or deferral.Any
of those.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
MOVE TO FILE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to filethe,
the item. Any discussion? Allthose in favor of the motion raise your hand and say
"aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 309
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.That's nine "ayes",zero "noes
motion carries.
ft.
Members, what would you liketo do? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, can we take fiveminutes? Idon't think itwould
hurtanybody.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, you want to take ten minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Ten minutes. Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, ten minutes would be 1:33. This meeting isin recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 1:22 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 1:41 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of,continuationfrom July 15, please reconvene. Itis
now approximately 1:41 p.m. on Monday, July 18, 2022.
Members, we're talkingabout what we should do since we have three Members that
have to leave for,in about five minutes. And then, they'llcome back at 2:15. But then,
at 2:30, we're going to lose Member, Vice, Pro Temp Kama. And I’m not sure, does
anybody know ifVice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez isreturning?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Isaw something, Isaw her, Ithinkshe's on.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm on. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you're on? Are you, are you going to stay on?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ihave a doctor'sappointment at 3:30.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 310
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So. Iwillbe on untilthen.
CHAIR LEE: Untilup to 3:30?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, 1 have to check-in with the doctor, so like,at
least 3:15.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, 3:15. But we willhave every, almost everybody from, well,we willhave
everybody at 2:15, okay? Okay, and that means. Member Sugimura, Sinenci, and
Paltinwillhave to be back rightat exactly 2:15. We'll have 15. Member Kama, are
you, are you leaving at 2:15, or your appointment isat 2:15, Imean 2:30?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: My appointment isat 2:30,so I'llbe leaving at 2:15.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay, so you'llbe gone.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: But Ican connect by phone as Idrive.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Well, isthatlegal? But anyway, yeah, let,let'sdo the best we can.
We gotta move forward. So, let's,let'stake the break at 1:50, which is likein seven
minutes and return at 2:15. And then, Member, Pro Temp Kama, justjoin us as you
can, okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Got it. Got it.
CHAIR LEE: And then,everybody else,we have, we'regoing to loseone more at 3:15. Okay
so tryto keep that-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I can come back after my doctor'sappointment too.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Ithink Member Molina has something at 4:30.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Ithinkwe're going to make itwork, Chair. We're going to make
itwork.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.And, you know, Member King,had a good idea,but then Iguess itdidn't
work. Because, Mr. Clerk,the testimony on Bill,on Bill21 isstillopen?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Testimony remains open forBill21.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 311
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, the idea of leavingiton the Clerk'stable and taking itup again on
August 5 at the next Council meeting, thatwouldn'twork, because we would have to
open testimony again? Imean, we couldn'thave closed testimony?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, if,ifBill21 is postponed to the next Council meeting
since that isa new Council meeting, anyone willbe able to testifyon the item again.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Member King,you wouldn’tconsidera recommittal,huh?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I don't want to recommit itto Committee. I mean, that doesn't
solve the problem. 1think it'sall,Ithinkthere'sa lotof misinformation, and I'vetriedto
take care of that in this amendment but, because that doesn't solve the problem of
testimony. You know, we can stillhave three hours of testimony. But Ithink ifwe can
use the next fiveminutes or something to tryto get one of these other ones done, or
two of these other ones done, that might be productive. The GREAT-20, GREAT-65
(2022) and 92, CD1, those are the lasttwo besides the lightingbill.
CHAIR LEE; Which one.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, Member Johnson's one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, yeah, there'sfourleft.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, fourleft.Who had hisor her hand up? Ijustsaw, was itMember Paltin?
Okay. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I would speak in favor of recommittal because, you know,
there'sa lotto go through,and we had threemeetings on the lightingbill.And then,at
firstreading, there was an amendment that was supposed to address people's
concerns, and we're stillhearing the concerns. So, ifwe go back to Committee, then
we can talk itout with the school folks,the Police Chief, Public Works, and likethat,
cause even ifwe pass something with an amendment, Imean, I,Ican anticipatea veto
coming down. So, itwouldn't be the lastof it,even though it'ssecond and final.
So, my preference isjustto talkitout with everybody in Committee, tryto come up to
an agreement, and then move itforward from there. I mean, we've already heard at
Council three times record testimony.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; The testimony wasn't ailabout this one item. But you know, if
that'sthe willofthe body, it'sdisappointingbecause we did work out these exemptions
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 312
and, with those entities. And there was, I don't know ifitwas sloppy reporting or
deliberatemisreporting,but there was some, for people to get the impression thatwe
were going to shut down sportsat nightwas, you know, shame on those reporterswho
put thattogether. Itwas, itwas one person who instigatedthat report,and itwas very
poorly done forpeople to get the impression of us being, wanting to close down sports
when we made that one of our firstexemptions. But ifthat'sthe willof the body and
you feellike,you know, that,that damage has been done and we have to rectifyit,
then, you know, so be it.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, as thisbillhas gone through the process, there has
not been clear communication. And I'm glad that the people who came to testify
expressed theirconcerns because obviously the Council heard them. And I don't
believethatwe have solved the problem of the Obon people who came out at the last
meeting. And the reason why the sports people are coming out isbecause there'sa
three-year limitationbefore they have to,or three years before,ifthe,you know, ifthe
fixturesbecome available,whatever that exemption was. But itstillleftitthere of
something thathad to be addressed. So, we justneed to clearthisup.
1 have a whole bunch of exemptions that Iwanted to add to the bill.But Iwillwait for
what this Committee decides. Ifwe can send itback to Committee, or ifwe're going to
continue on, then I'llsubmit my exemptions as amendments as needed, to clarifythings
that Iheard from the community.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and then Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Ijustwanted to mention that I'm inagreement
with what Member King'stryingto do, to do thisbill,do itrightat the onset, clear up all
the misunderstandings,get the truth,the whole truthout there so thatour community
is clear about what the intent of this billis and what the intentand the willof thisbody
is. So, 1concur. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Because we've now run up to 1:50.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, Ijust.I'llyieldthe floor. I think Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez had her hand up before me, so yieldthe floorto her, she wants to
speak.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 313
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Chair. Iwould support a recommittal,
and then that way we can just iron everything out. While, you know, there isn'ta
deadline, I,Irecognize and agree that,you know, the sooner thatwe can address the
lightingissuesforour seabirds,because they are an importantpartof our ecosystem.
But ifwe can justfigureitallout, get itallironed out, make sure that any, you know,
concerns are adequately addressed moving forward, then when it'sscheduled again
at Council,we won't get so much testimony. Because then everybody willunderstand,
we'llbe on the same page. At leastthat'sthe idealin a perfectworld. And perhaps
the reportingwillbe more fairand accurate inwhat the billwillseek to accomplish, and
allthe concerns willthen be addressed. And then, we'llhave fullsupport for the bill.
Okay, mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else,before we close up?
Yes, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. Might as well get in my two
cents, as the person who initiatedthe originaloutdoor lightingbill,which focused only
on parking lightsand streetlights.Now thatwe have a proposal that'smorphed into
addressing lightsfrom the business sector, as well as the, you know, community
sector,you know, people's houses, residents,now ballparks,you know. Committee is
the more appropriateplace to work thisthingout.
1thinkthere'smaybe a lotof people don't have a clear understanding of this.We may
have it,because we work with thisstuffevery day. The science community may have
a good understanding, but justa lotof the everyday folkswho are unable to come and
testify,likeMember Kama had mentioned, you know, a lotof our localresidents are
working jobs and these meetings are being held inthe daytime, okay. So, ironically,
nighttime is when more people can come out and participate,likethey would to go
watch theirson or daughter play ina footballgame, soccer game, etc.
So, { believe it'sbest we hear from allsegments of the community because thiswill
have a greater impact on the community with thiscurrentlegislation.So, we need to
absolutelymake sure everybody has a fullunderstandingof this.So, Committee isthe
appropriate place to have a much more fullerand broader discussion on this. Thank
you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 314
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Members. Alright,Member. We're, we're, we said we need to letthe
Members go. So, Member Sinenci,Member Sugimura, Member Paltin,we'llsee you
back at 2:15. Members, the rest of the Members, we're in recess until2:15, alright?
Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 1:53 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:19 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT COUNCILMEMBER KAMA,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Maui County Councilmeeting please reconvene. Itis approximately
2:19 on Monday, July 18, 2022, a continuationfrom Friday,July 15, 2022.
Mr. Clerk,well.Members, what'syour pleasure? Do you want to take up, the next item
would have been the lightbill,Ibelieve? Mr. Clerk,was it,was itthe lightbill?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. There's that item and then also before the body are
the other two, also remaining forthe body isthe other two billsfor second and final
reading,as wellas Committee Report 22-62.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King,do you have any suggestionsbefore we take thisup?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, i.I'm not,are we takingup the lightingbill? Ithought we
were going through the committee reportsfirst,but.
CHAIR LEE: We could.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That would be the next logicalorder, because we only have one
committee reportleft.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then,afterthat,what, you know. I'm,what, the idea was for us to try
and go through the hard ones.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: So thatwe could likeflythrough the rest.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well,Ican, ifyou want to take up Bill21, isthere anybody
waitingto testifyon it?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 315
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there were three individuals who signed up to testifyon
oh. now it'sfour individualssigned up to testifyon Bill21.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please callthem up.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: We willbe proceeding with testimony on Bill21, CD1, FD1
(2022) at thistime,and that item only. The firstperson signed up to testifyisJordan
Molina. To be followed by John Pelletier.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS JORDAN MOLINA [testifying on Bill No. 21 CD1 EDI
(2022)1:
Aloha Council. Ismy audio okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Alright,thank you. Aloha, Maui County Council. I am
Jordan Molina. I'mthe Directorof PublicWorks testifyingon behalf of the Department
regarding Bill21. Firstoff,Iwould liketo say thatthisbilldoes provide benefitsto Maui
County. The conversion to LEDs willhelp us reduce our energy consumption and
reduce lightpollutioninMaui County, furtheringour reduction,our demands on MECO,
reducing our fossilfuel consumption, and giving us energy savings that we can go
towards other environmental benefits.
However, there are some inappropriatemeasures that only serve to unnecessarily
harm Maui County. Regulating blue lightcontent requirestremendous cost but offers
no verifiablebenefitprotectingseabirds. The Department urges the Council to delete
thisrequirement and referthe matter back to Committee for furtherdiscussion.
There isno evidence thatsuggests seabirdswillbenefitfrom limitinga certaincolorof
blue light,of light. The Department thoroughly went through this,the matter of
reviewing allevidence and studieswhen we got put through the lawsuit,as well as in
preparing our environmental assessment forour streetlightconversion project. None
of the evidence can firmlystatethata certainpercentage of a certaincolor of lightwill
reduce seabird fallout.
Of major concern isthe impact to our streetlightconversion project.This willbe a direct
loss of millionsof dollarsin both having to purchase new fixturesto be compliant, as
well as delaying the projectand the realizationof the energy savings that come with
converting to LED. Additionally,thisbill'sattack on the work of the public and the
community to develop responsible streetlightingstandards for Maui County.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 316
As partof the conversion project,a community stakeholder group was assembled to
evaluate various lightingprojectsand various lightingcharacteristicsof concern to
determine which isthe best lightforMaui County. This group included representatives
from Save our Seabirds and the U,S. InstituteforAstronomy. Itwas determined that
inadditionto reducing lightpollution,improvingvisibilitywas justas important.
The lastconcern I'dliketo express is the cost for the Public Works Department to
become blue lightpolice. This willrequirefunding and trainingto get a handle on all
the criteriathatcomes with measuring and enforcingblue lightcontent and developing
a listof approved products for people to become compliant.
In conclusion, this billdoes provide good benefits,but itdoesn't have to do so
recklessly.The blue lightcontent isa reckless move. The arbitraryblue lightregulation
only serves to delay our streetlightconversion projectand attacks the ... is not
consistentwith the goals of our islandand community plans.
On behalf of the Department, I urge again, the Council to consider deletingthe blue
lightcontent as the regulationonly serves to add cost to our operation and provide no
verifiablebenefitto reducing seabird.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Members, questions? Okay, clarifyingquestions
30 seconds.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Mr. Molina, are you a scientist? Do you have a
background inthiskind of science?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: I am not a scientist.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. And then we, thisisthe firsttime we've heard about your
task force. Why were, why was that not brought to the Committee back in January
when we firststartedtalkingabout thisbill?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: There was no interest from the Committee to discuss the
matter.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But Committee did have interest and we sent you a letterasking
for comment. There was no mention of--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 317
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: To clarify,there was no lettersent to the Department of
Public Works. There was a letter sent to the Public Works Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -they asked us todo that.So, you were atthe Committee. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions, Members? Ifnot, thank you for,for your testimony
Mr. Molina. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,the next person signed up to testifyon thisitem isJohn
Pelletier.To be followed by Thomas Croly.
CHIEF OF POLICE JOHN PELLETIER [testifying on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha. Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Chief. Hi.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Hi. Forgive me, Iwas justbouncing in between meetings tryingto be
as effectiveas possible. I know that I'm on a clock for three minutes and so Ijust
wanted to clarify,when I spoke about a week and a half ago, I had asked for an
exemption, not an extension. And the way that itwas written,and Iwas asking forall
of publicsafety,not justfor MPD. And so, there'sa three-year,basicallya 1,095-day
extension. And so, I just was going to ask that public safety be removed from it
completely and that there isa true exemption and that we don'thave to worry about
this moving forward. Because we're talkingabout lifebeing affectedon this,and all
the reasons thatImentioned in public.And justas Councilmember Kama mentioned,
Ihave to,Ihave to support,you know, lifesafetyfirstand foremost.
And so, there'sa DOJ study thatwas done quite some time out of the COPS Office.
And what itbasicallysays isthatthere was methodology used, and they had programs
in the United States and United Kingdom, and they concluded that improved street
lighting,improved streetlighting,leads to a 21 percent decrease incrime compared to
controlledareas. I think I'm only mentioning that because of what we saw on that
demonstration from Mr. Eric Miyasato. And ifI butchered his lastname, forgive me.
But Ithought thatthatwas telling.
Ijust,in lightof that,Ithink I'm going to ask thatwe please put thisback to Committee
work. And ifwe're going to do something, Ithinkwe need to have a demonstration
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 318
what this lightingsystem would actuallylook likefor the public,and that we could
actuallysee itand we can actuallyexperience it.Because Ithink it'stoo important of
a situationfor us justto do this based on reports. We don't know, was his demo
factual? Maybe itwas, maybe itwasn't. But Ithinkwe need to do that.
And as itstands rightnow, thisis,thisisproblematic.And so, 1think ifwe justare a
littlemore diligent,and we get allour ducks in a row, we can see what we can do
moving, moving ahead cause Idon'twant a human safety issue in thisbill.Iwant to
make sure we don't have that. I want to make sure that we don'thave a publicsafety
component here. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Chief,do you drivedown Mokulele at night?
Because there are lightsthere thatare shielded amber lights,that are the appropriate
lights.There are also the same kinds of lightson Kenolio, on the road that I liveon.
So, they are existingrightnow ifyou wanted to see what they look like.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Well, Ijustthinkbased on what thatdemonstration was, I mean, we
know we're at 13 fatalities.And here's what I,here's what Iwould offerto you is,do
we feelthatrunners and walkers thatare walking on the streetare adequately, Iknow
you'reholdingup the sign ... so 1got to ask a question,so.
...ami allowed to finish,since Igot asked the question,or no?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, please finish.Please finish.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Okay. So, so what Iwould say is,we, we, we know that we've got
individualsthat they'renot, they'renot equipping themselves with lightingon the
outside projectingout. They might be wearing a vest. But ifwe have streetlightsthat
cause thatissue,ifwe do, Ithinkthatwe justneed to be fullyaware of a County as to
what that'sgoing to be, because I hate for us to have people get hurt because they
were walking and they weren't seen.
Ireallythinkthatthatdemo from the gentleman on Friday reallyillustrateda point.And
likeI said, itcould be, hey, he's in a controlledenvironment and itwas, that,itwas
staged. Iget that.That'swhy I'masking maybe we should have something thatwould
demonstrate thisiswhat itwould look like,thisiswhat thiswould look like,and so that
everybody could get out there and see it,touch it,experience it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 319
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'msaying you can see itnow. We have iton our island.
CHIEF OF POLICE; Yeah. But he's, but his demonstration, he showed something too and
thatwas way differentthan what we're talkingabout. Ijust,how do you, how do you,
how does anybody not look at what we saw on Friday and not have questions? Ijust,
Ithinkthat inthe interestof being fullytransparent,we should at leastconsider that.
And that'swhy I'm simply saying, ifwe're ina rush to vote, Idon'tsee, okay, but ifwe're
going to justbe a littlediligentand say can we justtake a moment and, and perhaps
put itto Committee and pause and figurethisout.
And likeIsaid,Iasked foran exemption, not an extension. And, and a 1,000-days for
us tofigureout what kind of lightingsystem we're going to get,and Iunderstand there's
another exemption writtenwithinthat. But that'snot what Ihad asked foron behalf of
publicsafety. And Iknow thatChief Ventura and Ispecificallyspoke on thisvery issue
together. We were going to tryto do thisjointlytogether,but we justcouldn'tbecause
of our schedules. So, I'm not asking on behalf of justMPD. I'm asking on behalf of
publicsafetyforallof the County of Maui, and thatthe Chief of Fireand Iare unitedin
thismessage today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are there any other questions.Members?
Member Molina, and then Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oops, sorryabout that.Aloha, Chief. Just one quick question.
So, your preference is,you're satisfiedwith the currentlightingthat we have at the
moment? Just a yes or no answer isfine.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Oh, you know, you and Ihave had thiswhere you open Pandora's box
on me. No, I'dsay I'm absolutely not satisfied.Idon'tthere'senough lighting.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Chief Pelletier. I just was
inquiring,isthat commitment from you and Chief Ventura to fullyparticipateifitshould
get referredback to Committee?
CHIEF OF POLICE: Ihave no problem participating.The word "fully",you'regoing to have
to definethata littlebit.But Iwould give you whatever resources,whatever weigh-in
we can do. You know, I'll,I'lldefend the former president,you know, what is,is. But,
no, you'll,you have my commitment, of course, because Iwant to make sure thatwe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 320
do what's best for Maui County. And Iwant to make sure that Isupport the Council.
And, and I'mavailableforallof you, as needed. And so, you'llhave commitment from
MPD.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Nice seeing you here. Chief. So, I'm concerned about
doing your DUl checkpoints and allof that. I,the demonstration thatyou talked about
was one thing,but I,I am concerned about you being able to do the other parts that
requirelighting.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Well,that'san issue,too,right? We have to make sure thatwe have
things,and so Councilmember Sugimura, you reallybring up a great point. Ifyou're
going to do some of those tests that you have to establish probable cause on a
checkpoint,you have to have adequate lightingor you open up the abilitynot to defend
that. And you've got to make sure thatwhen you make those arrests,you do itto the
best of your ability.And ifthey say well,the lightinghere, you weren't able to do that,
and it'snot adequate to thisparticularstandard, or they couldn'tsee the straightline
that they'rewalking or they couldn'tsee for whatever reason, are we going to walk
down, again. Pandora's box and create a situation.
Because ifthisCounty is differentthan the other counties and we're doing certain,
certainprosecutions and arrestswith differentlightingstandards. And I'm not saying,
I know thatthere'sa three-yearexemption, but at day 1,096, ifthere isa, you know,
yellow lightflood lightforthat,but it'sa differentmechanism, you know, do we open up
something there? So, Ijust think itneeds a, ifit'sgoing to, ifwe're going to do
something, let'sdo itrightand let'shave a, let'sjustdo itright.That's all.That's allI'm
saying.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Oops, beg your pardon. Sorry, pushed the wrong button.
Good afternoon.Chief Pelletier.Good to see you. So, you mentioned a littlebiton the
idea thatother counties might not be doing this.And my understanding isBig Island
does do this.So, have you spoken with your counterpart on the Big Island,ifthey,you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 321
know, the Chief of theirPolice Department, ifthey have any struggleswith thatunder
underlitareas ininducing crime?
CHIEF OF POLICE: No, I have not. I also know that there's a couple municipalitiesin the
continental United States that have done these as well. Iwas referring,and Ithinkthat
the Department of Justicestudy thatImentioned, to me, isthe one thatistelling,where
you see a 21 percent reductionincrime because of more lighting.And so, you know,
we've never even talked about the CPTED issue; Community Policing Through
Environmental Design.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
CHIEF OF POLICE: We never even touched that in this whole conversation.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I don't have much time.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Right. I ...mention, yeah, that'sa whole other conversation.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Right.
CHIEF OF POLICE: And that's,that'syour businesses. So, ifthe businesses have to have
less lighting,how many more theftsare you going to have? How many more vehicle
thefts? How many more break-ins? So, those are conversationswe haven'teven, and
Iwas respectfulnot to even bring that up on the firstone. Ijustwas tryingto get the
exemption, but we didn'tget the exemption, we got something else. And so, f was
tryingto see ifwe couldn'tget that.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci,do you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And mahaio, Chief Pelletier.Yeah, so
justclarification.You don'twant the extension, you want the exemption, yeah?
CHIEF OF POLICE: I,Iwould likea fullextension. I'm sorry,fullexemption, a full,thisdoes
not apply to public safety. And that,and it'sfor me, for Fire,for ambulance, search
and rescue. Coast Guard, whatever would be there for lifeand safety. And so, we're
not on a three-yearclock,so to speak.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Got it.Thanks.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Thank you. Mahaio.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 322
CHAIR LEE: And, okay, Mr. Clerk? And thank you, Chief. Itappears we, we have, we don't
have any more questions foryou rightnow.
CHIEF OF POLICE; Mahalo. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Clerk?
Thank you.
Mr. Clerk,do we have any more testifiers?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. The next person signed up to testifyisThomas
Croly. To be followed by Christopher Fishkin.
MR. TOM CROLY ftestifvina on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (202211:
Aloha, Chair. Aloha, Councilmembers. I'llbe very brief.Tom Croly speaking on my
own behalf on this issue. First,I believe that there should be greater consensus with
the publicsafetyfolks,and withthe Department of PublicWorks before thisitem moves
forward. So Ihope itgets recommitted.
When itgets recommitted, I hope that you might give some consideration to the
standards for people's home lighting.There isthis comment in there that says that
holidaylightingisexempt. But there'slow voltage,low wattage landscape lightingthat
idon'tthinkshould be included as part of thisbill.Ithinkthe lastthing thatwe want to
see is a neighbor callingin another neighbor because their landscape lightingis
disturbingthem, and it'sshooting up and it'ssupposed to be shooting down, and now
you've got the County involvedina neighbor-to-neighborissue.
But Ithinkthatitshould be very clearto exempt any low wattage, and maybe you need
to define that,5 watts or less, 10 watts or less landscape lightingfrom thiskind of
consideration. Otherwise, you have something that'sjust non-enforceable, but it's
going to be a problem when there'ssomebody who knows the nuance of the law and
says I'm going to callin a complaint about my neighbor because Idon't likethat he
leaves those landscaping lightson until10:00 at nightor whatever the case may be.
So, again, the bigger issue is the public safety issue, but ifit'sgoing back for
recommittal, please give consideration to establishing specificrules for landscape
lightingat people's homes. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 323
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Questions. Members? Ifnot,thanks again. And may we
have the next testifier,please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The lastperson we have sign up to testifyon Bill21, CD1, FD1
(2022) isChristopher Fishkin.
MR. CHRISTOPHER FISHKIN ftestifvina on BillNo. 21 CD1 FD1 (2022)1:
Good afternoon,Councilmembers. So, you know, inrelationfirstto what the Chief just
said,well,publicsafetyisalways primary forallof us. The Chief referredto thisbillas
promoting less lighting.1don'tthinkthat isan accurate descriptionof thisbill,that it
would provide less lighting.So, I thinkthat might have been a mis, an inadvertent
misrepresentation on his part.
The Department of Public Works, Jordan Molina, also made inaccurate
representations about the science, without citingto any authorities.Let me citeto the
paper inConservation Biology in2017, or OrnithologicalApplications,the condor blue
lightattractionnocturnally migrating birds. And actually,in that abstract,itmade a
clear statement that as rapid urbanization and industrializationcauses an increase in
artificiallight,we suggest thatswitchingto longerwavelength lightsisa convenient and
economically effectiveway to reduce birdcollision.So, there isscience. Those are
two thatIfound withinthe period oftime thatMr. Molina actuallytestifiedand now. So,
there'sobviouslyscience on thisthat'sclear.
Finally,Ijust want to say that I'm very disheartened that 1 learned that Corporation
Counsel, your attorneys,Councilmembers, actuallyinstead of approving thisbillto
legalityand form as itwas, as they were requested to do, went out and made theirown
revisionsof it,sua sponte as itwere. Again, and then had someone testify,who isa
very specious person about the bill.Ithinkit'svery unfairwhat your own attorneysdo
to you. Iknow that,you know, Yuki constantlytellsus, you know, we're not,you know,
these people aren't corrupt, i appreciate you saying that,but unfortunatelyCorp.
Counsel does not seem to be lookingafteryour interests.They seem to be looking
after their own, and I really have a problem with that. Okay, thank you,
Councilmembers. Iappreciate you lettingme testifytoday. Thank you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: We have a question foryou, from Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you forbeing here, Mr. Fishkin.Can
you send those two studiesthatyou found, cause Idon'tthinkwe saw those. One of
them sounds-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 324
MR. FISHKIN: Oh sure. Surely.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
MR. FISHKIN; Yeah, Iwilldo that.Thank you. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Other questions? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Fishkin.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individualssigned up to testifyon
Bill21, CD1, FD1 (2022), so we willdo a lastcallat this time. Ifthere are any
individualsinterestedin testifyingon thisitem and have not done so already,please
identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,thisisour lastcallfortestimony on thisitem.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, are there any objectionsto closing publictestimony and
accepting writtentestimony intothe record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
Mr. Clerk,can you please callthisitem up, please?
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 21. CD1. FD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Just pursuant to what itseems to be the will
of the body. I'lljustletsomebody else make a motion to recommit this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 325
CHAIR LEE: Alright,thank you. Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO RECOMMIT THIS.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura to recommit
this item. Discussion?
Oh, yes, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,justfor staffsclarity,is the recommittal to the CARE
Committee?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; That, that would be it.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any discussion? Member Sinenci.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 2:43 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, yeah, I just wanted to quickly speak. Okay with
recommitting. I did want to appreciate and mahalo allthose that have provided
scientificanalysis and reportson birdfindings. I understand that there was a lotof
testimony against it.And again, ...Councilmember, I'm okay with damage controlof
sorts if,you know, ifthere'sthe wrong informationout there. Idid agree thatthere was
a lotof exemptions to fill,yet we stillheard the same people coming and saying,
testifyingagainst it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 326
I too am sensitiveto,you know, even though there'sa new types of lightsthat are
economically but,you know, sometimes I'm always flashingpeople that Ithinkthey
have theirhighlights,but they don't. They justhave this,this reallystrong halogen
lightsthat,that can even obscure your own drivingat night. So, looking forward to
working more on thisbill.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Well, letthe record show that Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez is,has joined the call.
Next, we have Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. I'mwillingto take thisback intomy Committee
and hope thatwe get responses from those who didn'trespond back inFebruary when
we sent them letters,and came out the last-minute. But Iunderstand that there'sbeen
some sensationalisticjournalist,journalism around this, and it'sgotten people,
unfortunately,on the wrong track about what we're reallytryingto do.
Iwas disappointed that somebody gave the publicthe impression thatwe were trying
to close down night sports. That was never an intention.In fact,that,one of the first
things we did was make that exemption. And I spoke to the Directorof Parks and
Recreation,she was good with thatexemption. So, I,I'm hoping thatthisdoesn'tturn
into another attack on an environmental billlike we had with the single-use plasticban.
And we saw the community plasteredwith posters that said,"Save our platelunch".
And itwas never about the platelunch. Itwas about the plate,not the food.
So, you know, let's,we'lltake itback. We'll be able to betterinform the community. I
hope we'llget directparticipationfrom those who didn'tparticipatein the, in the
beginning of this year when we firststarted working on this bill.But I,I hear the
Members and appreciate theirconcern. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. I,likeMember Sinenci, I'dliketo thank everybody
who got us to thispoint. Ithinkthere'sa lotmore participationnow. And Ithinkthat
recommitting willallow fora broader, fullerdiscussion than what we had inthe past.
As Member King said,thatshe didn'tget much response to her initialqueries. Itseems
that everybody isfullyaware now of what's going on. Ithinkthatrecommittal with the
posting,and allthe ASFs that have happened between moving out of Committee and
today willgive people a chance to read what iscurrentlybeing proposed, and add their
mana'o to that proposal.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 327
Ithinkthat it's,it'sgood to engage as many people as we can. and not only include
what they have to say, but also educate as to why seabirds are so criticalto us.
Because a lotof testimony, a lotof people were more concerned with businesses and
human impacts, where the impacts to the seabirds are just as important. But let'ssee
ifwe can finda way forward thatpeople can come together on.
So, Ithink,you know, to educate folksand tryto come to a mutually agreeable solution
be the best point,best place at thispoint,because Ihave no doubt ifwe continue on,
thatthere willbe a veto,and then willbe more testimony on the same thing. And we
wouldn't have given folksa chance to participateinthe discussion ifwe continue to do
the Committee work on the Council floor. So, that'smy sentiment. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anybody else?
Member Sugimura. You're muted. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Iagree with thisdiscussion and appreciate that we have
broadened the discussionand are able tothen include,you know, the people who have
come out inforce,because they obviously were concerned. One of the other things
that'sdifferentfrom the Big Islandbill,which we kept on hearing thatthiswas modeled
after,isBig Islanddoes not,isnot residences. So, that'sa big change from Big Island
to us, where it'severybody, right? The word "all",versus only commercial, which is
what the Big Islandfocuses on, commercial. So, that'sanother concern Ihave forhow
would we, how would thisaffectour working familieswho are just strugglingto,you
know, keep theirfamiliesgoing. And now, iftheirlightbulb goes out,they would have
to buy a specialkind, idon'tknow. So, bigger discussion,appreciate it.Thank you.
Member King and everybody else. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. Andthankyou, Member King,
fortaking thisback intoCommittee. As thisbillhas progressed over the lastcouple of
weeks, more and more people from a major segment of our community, thatofparents,
the MIL, business folkswere coming out to express theirconcerns. And maybe it's,
has to do more with not having a fullunderstanding of the bill,so which iswhy, you
know, you need. Committee isthe appropriate place.
And I know itcan be frustrating,because I'vebeen where you're at.Member King,
where you want to get something out and then something comes up atthe lastminute.
But it'sjustthe process we have and we want to make sure thateverybody has a full
understanding, not just the science community, but also our residentswho cannot
attend these meetings or cannot participatebecause they'reworking, as Member
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 328
Kama had statedearlier,two and threejobs,and they'reparents, they have kids. And
we also got to look at thatfactortoo. So, it's,of course, about the environment and
the birds, but also about the activitiesinvolvingour society,everything, cultural
activities,sports activities.And that'swhy this billhas far-reaching effects. So we
need to take a closer look at itand see where we can reach some type of compromise
on it.So, thank you. Support the recommittal.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments? Ifnot are,do we need rollcall? No? Allthose infavor
of the motion, raiseyour hand and say aye?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDE2, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: AH "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; Pro Temp Kama. Motion carries.This
this matter will be recommitted to the CARE Committee.
Mr, Clerk, next, next one.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair,before the body, the remaining items before the body are
Committee Report 22-62, Bill65 (2022),and Bill92, CD1 (2022). Which one did you
want to proceed with next?
CHAIR LEE: 22-62. Just take itinthe order you justmentioned.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, proceeding with Committee Report 22-62, we'll
take testimony on thisitem at thistime. Chair,the firstperson signed up to testifyon
thisitem isJoe Kent. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MR. JOE KENT (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-62):
Aloha. Can you hear me and see me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 329
MR. KENT: Hi. Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name isJoe Kent, and I'mthe
Executive Vice-President of the Grassroot Institute of Hawaii. We're an economic
research organization,and a non-profittaxpayer watchdog thatpromotes the values of
individualliberty,economic freedom, and accountable government. I'm also a paid
lobbyistforour institution.
Bill107 seems to be a well-meaning attempt to lower housing prices,but respectfully,
our analysis of the billisthat itwould hurt the people it'ssupposed to help. The bill
would affectthe pricecalculationsforallhomes thatqualifyas affordablehousing and
through a complicated means, itwould effectivelylower the pricethat an affordable
home can sellforby around 20 to 25 percent.
Now, this would lead to developers taking losses. The County could cover those
losses, but thatwould mean taxpayers would be paying to refund developers forthose
costs. Inother words, Maui residentswho are strugglingto pay theirmortgages would
also be paying for the mortgages of theirneighbors. And ifit'sdone through bonds,
then the taxpayers would have to repay the bond plus interest.And interestratesare
high rightnow, so thismeans thatmoney would be going towards debt serviceinstead
of infrastructurelikeroads, bridges,and etc.
Another pointisthatany money from the County or from foundations does not have to
be granted to developers to cover theirlosses. Developers are not guaranteed that
money from the County. So, they would have to spend theirmoney and take a huge
riskof a loss on the projectwith the hope thatthe Council would look favorablyupon
them. And as we know, the Council doesn't always look favorablyupon allaffordable
housing projects.Many, yes, but not all.
So. insummary, there aren't,there'sno such thing as a free lunch. There's no way to
hide the losses,except by pushing itonto eitherdevelopers or taxpayers. Eitherway,
this bill increases the risk for home builders who may be taking significantlosses,
especiallywhen itcomes to 100 percent affordable housing projects. Thanks for
allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions for Mr. Kent? Ifnot,thank
you very much.
MR. KENT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, well,we have one. Okay, when you, when you raise your hand, can you
raise ita littlehigher,so Ican see?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 330
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Member Sugimura has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kent, for being here. So,
you're saying that the proposed legislation,you're saying you're against itgoing to
developers, and more to the individualhomeowners?
MR. KENT; What I'msaying is,isthattherewas previously,in previous testimony, a rebuttal
thatthe County could repay the losses from the developers from thisbill.But I'mjust
saying thatthere'sa problem with thatconcept, because that money-
CHAIR LEE; Could you finishup, Mr. Kent?
MR. KENT: Sure. That money would be, you know, a scarce resource. It'dbe directedaway
from paying for rents,for example. A lotof renters are on the verge of becoming
homeless on Maui. And so, thiswould directmoney away from them, and towards
developers instead.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Kent.
MR. KENT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testifyisThomas
Croly. To be followed by Kai Nishiki.
MR. TOM CROLY (testifying on Committee Report 22-62):
Aloha. Council. Again, Tom Croly speaking on my own behalf. You know, sometimes
it'sfulfillingwhen you give testimony and then eventually,ithappens. Itwas probably
three or four years ago that I gave testimony on thisfundamental idea thatwe, the
calculationsthatwere being used in our affordablehousing guidelinesdidn'tlineup
with the calculationsthatwere being made by mortgagers thatto grant mortgages. So,
we were puttingpeople intoclasses and saying ifyou make thismuch money, you can
buy a house forthismuch. But then the mortgage company says no, you need to make
more money than that inorder to buy a house at thisvalue. And thatput these people
in a Catch-22. So, thismeasure istryingto fixthat,and Isupport itfrom that aspect.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 331
That hopefully,itisin,you know, together with what the lenders would lend forthese
houses.
However, you heard testimony from some of the lenders who said no, thisstilldoesn't
work. So, Ido think thisneeds to go back to Committee and needs to be where the
affordable prices and the calculation that's being used is consistent with the
calculationsbeing used by the lenders that say, yes, ifyou make thismuch money,
we'lllend you thismuch money inorder to buy the house.
But there'sone thingthat Ithinkthe County can do that would be significantin here.
And that isthe old rules said they were only considering principaland interest.This
one says we're considering principal,interest,taxes, and insurance, and other fees.
You know what the County can do to help affordablehousing rightoffthe bat issay
we're going to give a five-yearexemption from real property taxes for any of these
affordable houses. Then, you don't have to calculatethat in.
So, ratherthan tryingto come up with money thatyou would be givingdirectlyto the,
the purchaser, or money that you would be givingto the developer, the County just
doesn't have that component in there. So, please give some thought to waiving
property taxes for a period of fiveyears for any affordable house that'sbeing sold.
That's basicallygivingthe money directlyto the person and helpingfacilitatetheir,their
purchase of the home.
But I do believe thatthisshould go back to Committee rightnow, and should come
back with the agreement, ifyou will,of the lenderswho say yep thisworks, we would
be able to lend money at,to people in these income classes in these amounts. So,
again, great idea. I'lltake creditforhaving itseveralyears ago and presenting itto the
Council,but nobody acted on itthen. But thank you, Mr. Johnson, foractingon itnow.
And let'sjustget itrightand move itforward. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson, question?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to stick with clarifying
questions, Mr. Croly,Ionly got 30 seconds. Idon'tknow which lenderyou'respeaking
of,because when we had RCAC come down, they're,they help across the nationwith
gettingpeople inthe FHA loans,and we're followingthe FHA loans. So, which lender
did we have inour Committee say thatthisnumbers, thisformula does notwork? This
is a math formula that inciudes-
MR. CROLY: No, it'snot, it'snot a matter that the math formula doesn't work. But, like,Jeff
Gilbreath came in and said--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 332
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; He's not a lender. He's not a lender. Let'sclarifythat. He's
not a lender.
MR. CROLY; He's not a lender,right,right.But the bottom, bottom lineis,we just got to
make sure that the lenders are saying, yes, the person you put in this,in this price
range can affordthe amount thatyou'resaying thatthey should. And as long as those
things lineup, then you're,then you'regood.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions.Members?
Do we have a next testifier,Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The lastperson signed up to testifyon Committee
Report 22-62 isKai Nishiki.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Nishiki.
MS. KAI NISHIKI (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-62):
Good afternoon. Chair, Councilmembers. Kai Nishikispeaking on my own behalf. The
County has centered on the needs of developers for decades and look where ithas
gotten us. We have allseen the press releases of record settingsales numbers for
real estate. What that means for our residents is absolute devastation. Maui County's
housing situationisa disaster,a true crisis.
And Iquote a featured speaker at a recent grassroots instituteseminar. "Maui’s sky-
high home pricesand the displacement of the localpopulationthatcomes with it,are
a self-inflictedwound", said Tobias Peter, Director of Research at the AEI Housing
Center inWashington, DC. And while Ido not agree with allthat he said,that isa true
statement. This is a manmade disaster. I would argue that we are in an absolute
housing state of emergency. And when disaster strikes,the people look to our
government, you, to step in. This isone of those times.
Homes thatare builtas affordablereallyaren't.Just read the thousands of comments
made by residents on the message boards ridiculingthese so-called affordable
projects. Number one comment, affordableforwho? We have heard from lending
experts thatthe way we have been calculatingsales priceguidelinesisjustnot correct.
By leavingout PMI, HOA fees,and other insurance prices,we're not using the same
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 333
math as lenders to come up with these sale prices.And thatisnot how you make good
policy.We are settingour residentsup to fail.
Good affordable housing policy cannot be based on incomplete or faultymortgage
math. There's just no way around it. We have an obligationto our workforce, not
developers. That duty means that we have to correct our sales price guidelines and
then use allthe tools that we have to work with developers and buildersto make that
possible.
During Committee meetings, innovate and creativethinkingdevelopers working on
trulyaffordable,trulyattainablehousing, were supportive and are willingto work with
the County to make this happen now. Also, during Committee, Mariah, from the
FinancialOpportunity Center, which has been funded for,Ibelieve,the thirdyear from
the County of Maui and gets homebuyers ready forhomeownership saidthatwiththese
new guidelines,she can now qualify40 percent more of our residents on her list.
Amazing. That rightthere should be allyou need to hear to realizewhat a game-
changer Maui County has the resources to fixthisproblem. Millionsand millionsof
dollars.We absolutelyhave the abilityto house our people fairlyifwe do. ..
This Council has been settingour County up, billby bill,to do better.Mahalo. Please
do not letfearor a scarcitymindset keep us from fixingmortgage calculationsthatare
justnot accurate. Who does thatserve? Please be bold,solutionoriented.A yes vote
isa vote fortrue equity,a vote for our residents being hitby thiscatastrophicdisaster
thatisdestroyingour communities. IfIcould justfinishmy lastsentence.
CHAIR LEE: Please.
MS. NISHIKI; Hitby thiscatastrophicdisasterthat isdestroyingour communities rightnow.
Please help us inthistime of crisis.Mahalo very much. And thank you forworking all
these hours, very much appreciated.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Kai.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other individuals signed up to testifyon
Committee Report 22-62. So, we willdo a lastcallat thistime. Ifthere are any
individualswho want to testifyon this item and have not done so already,please
identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,thisisour lastcallfortestimonyon Committee Report
22-62.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 334
CHAIR LEE: Members are there any objectionsto closingpublic testimony and accepting
writtentestimony intothe record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Mr. Clerk,please callthisitem up.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-62 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 107, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 2.96, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SALES PRICE GUIDELINES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-62.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Mr. Johnson, seconded by Mr. Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-62.
Discussion, Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Members, your Affordable Housing
Committee met on November 29, 2021, May 23, 2022, and June 30, 2022. Your
Committee discussed capping totalhousing costs at 31 percent ofgross income within
each workforce housing income category instead of per individualhome.
Your Committee agreed to amend Bill107's effectivedate to be withinthirtydays of
the release of the 2023 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban, Housing and Urban
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 335
Development area's median income guidelines to allow developers time to adjust
financingfortheirprojects.
Your Committee, your Committee supported Bill107's potentialto increase housing
affordabilityforresidentsand voted 5-3 to recommend passage of Bill107, CD1 (2022).
Irespectfullyask foryour support of thismotion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion,Mr. Sinenci? No? Anybody else,discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I speak in support of the motion. We've heard from
many testifiersthatifwe don'tdo something now, then our kids'kidswould not have a
place to stay or at leastaffordto liveinMaui County.
Isupport Member Johnson and the AH Committee Chair,as he'sgot a plan and we've
got the Hawaii Community Assets StrategicPlanning. We've already got additional
50-some millioninour AH, AffordableHousing Fund. So, I'mhoping thatthisisa path
forward inusing those additionalfunds-
CHAIRLEE: Okay, are you frozen? Are you stilltalking? Okay, we'llcome back toyou then.
Anyone else have anything to say?
Member Sugimura, and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I have a Amendment Summary Form. Staff,
ifyou could send itforward. Didn'tcome through? You can go on to the next speaker
and we'llwait foritto get sent forward. Itwas supposed to be sent from Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Iactuallyhad a questionforMember Johnson.
You know, when we had allthattestimony on Friday,there were a couple people who
said they would contact you over the weekend and, and talkto you about,you know,
what theirideas were forthe bill.Did you get, did you, were you contacted by any of
them?
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 336
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Yeah. They, we, we had, they sent me some emails. But,
yeah, we, you know, we didn'thave a dialogue. But that their,theiremails were sent
by writtentestimony. Itwas prettymuch the same thing.They justsent me the written
testimony.
(Councilmember Sinenciwas excused from the meeting at 3:09 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. okay. Ithought they were going to have a conversation with
you about theirideas forthe bill.So, itwas prettymuch what we heard and wasn't in,
was, thatwas, can you justkind of give us a, you know, your impression of what itwas
thatthey sent inwrittentestimony,ifthatwas appropriateor not?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Well, what I'veheard isthata lotof them, they'vethe,they
spoke that,you know, they weren't at the table. And I had mentioned that we have,
we have had three meetings on thisparticularitem. So, I don't know, ifit'sa public
hearing everyone isinvited.So, and I'm not sure what more else we can do? Thank
you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Firstof all,you know, tipof the cap
to our AffordableHousing Chair. Imean, he's certainlytakingthe bullby the horns on
thisissue,justingeneral. So, Ireallycommend you forthat,Mr. Johnson. This isone
of those rare times where I'm not in support of, you know, legislationrelated to
affordablehousing, ithink,again, it'smaybe simitarto the outdoor lightingbill.
Maybe justconsider taking itback to Committee where we can rework ita littlebit.
Because we did hear from people who are strong housing advocates, like
Mr. Gilbreath,Mr. Kuoha, and also maybe we should maybe get more lenders involved.
My understanding that we had some mortgage counselors, but justget more input.
Because I'dcertainlyhate to pass something that could have some unintended
consequences as itrelatesto,you know, maybe creatingdisincentivesand also,you
know, and maybe additionalexpenses that not anticipated.So, Ijustwant to be sure.
So, my preference would be ifthe Chair would consider taking itback to Committee. I
know we sometimes want to move things out ASAP, and there were several meetings.
And I don't know what kind of outreach was done with these other folks who had
concerns? And, you know, you are correct that itis noticed, but sometimes you just
got to tryand get more additionalinput.And Iwould hope too,as Member King asked,
ifthese folkswho had testifiedon Friday,that they would have gotten in touch with
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 337
Member Johnson. But,you know, Iguess theyjustsubmitted theirtestimony inwriting.
So personally.I’mnot comfortable with moving itout here today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much. Chair. So, yeah, Iwas
surprised to hear JeffGilbreathin histestimony. And he did submit writtenalso,just
saying itwas not part of what he was tryingto, I guess, get, make happen with the
comprehensive affordable housing report that he did for us, and as well as Hawaii
Community Foundation, Keoni Kanuha [sic].I mean, he was, you know, they were
prettyclearthatitmay be good, but itneeded more work.
And IthinkIagree thatwe should, you know, send, ifthe Chair would allow,you know,
send itback to Committee and get ailthese detailsworked out,so we don'twalk down
the path oftryingto make a bettersituationand actually,you know, puttingblockages
to developers and, and residents to having more housing. So, that'smy general
comment.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I,IfigureI'dspeak up now, because both
Members mentioned the idea of bringingitback to Committee. You know, thisbilldoes
not livein a vacuum, right? And we have other billsthatwe're going to be moving
forward with. We're going to look for,you know, the proper ways to subsidizethe little
guys. We're going to look at allthese, you know, lookingat creatingother ways that
alleviate their concerns.
But thisbillis a math formula. Itis simply basicallysaying these are our affordable
housing priceguidelinesstartingalmost,you know, nextyear once the HUD guidelines
get posted. It’sa formula that allows our buyers to get those prime FHA loans that
majorityof people use theirfirst-timehomes for.Once again,it'sthe,they have, they
have the, our one person came in said 40 percent increase in,inpeople gettingtheir,
theirloans for theirhouses. This isa very significantthing.
Remember, we had Bill61 that opened up the vowels of the, of the way we use our
Affordable Housing Fund. We have Bill111. It'sjustlikewhat our,our testifierjust
said,inanswerto those questions,affordableforwho? And what, what'syour definition
of "affordable"?Well, thisisaddressing the,the what isthe how much? So, that,that's
why Ithinkidon'twant to take itback to Committee. Ithinkthere'llbe more billsthat
willhelp, help with this.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 338
You know, we're helping out long-term residents with these homes. It'swhat
Councilmember Kama was speaking on. itisan emergency. This isa billto help our
long-term residents,Bills111 and Bill61, as well as this bill,as well as more bills.It's
a, you know, it'sa. it'sa constant reorganization on how we're doing this. You don't
look atthisbillinthe vacuum ismy point.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else,Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. This isanother difficultone. I,Itotallyget
where Member Johnson iscoming from on the affordableforwho. Ithinkmajorityof
the people that have been able to take advantage of affordable housing are privileged
in some way over folks that are unable to. Because likehow Mr. Croly said, itjust
won't work, the math doesn't work.
At the same time, Ithink that those other billsthat Mr. Johnson istalkingabout needs
to be passed concurrentlyon thisone because we don'twant to prevent more houses
from gettingbuiltatthe same time we're making itmore able to qualifyfora loan. And
from the testimony that I heard from Mr. Apo and Mr. Gilbreath,they'rewillingto help
us do that kind of concurrently.
And so,you know, Ivoted forthisout ofCommittee because we did have the mortgage
lenders speak, and we did have allthese people speak. The one thing that 1do recall
that we didn'taddress is,isthe missing portionof how to,to linkthe two. And Iheard
Member Johnson reference Bill61, which isthe start,but we need to linkit,Ithink,to,
to how to get thatto happen.
The otherthingthat,thatreallyhitme ishearing from the youth. Mr. Higa. And Ialso
got a email testimony from the Youth Council thatMember King had startedthatthey,
they are looking at thisas theirprojectbill.And I think,you know, when the youth
speak and when they want to get involved on matters that reallyaffectthem, Iwould
like to listen and involve them as well.
So, my preference also would be to recommit and work those issues out about linking
Bill61 and Bill107, so thatit's,it'sa concurrent passage, not one before the other. So,
or not Bill61, but a mechanism to get the funds that have been allowed to open up
from Bill61 to 107. And also, involve Mr. Gilbreath and Mr. Apo for their,I guess
Mr. Kuoha and bringthe kids along, too, because it'san issuethatthey'veexpressed
an interest in.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 339
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson, it'slookinglikeyou may not have enough, you may not have five
to push thisforward. So, would you consider recommitting?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Iwillconsider it.Okay, Ihave to. Yeah, let'sdo it.Because
we, we have, the idea was that it'snot going to startuntilnext year once the HUD
guidelines come out. So, ifthat's,that'swhat we have to do, we'llrecommit itthen.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you want to withdraw your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
I WITHDRAW MY MOTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And who was the seconder? Member King? Oh, Member Sinenci, I
think. But then, he's gone. Idon'tknow where they went. Well, IthinkVice-Chair is
on, but not her video. Member Kama isgone. And I'mnot sure where Member Sinenci
went.
Mr. Clerk, can we withdraw the motion ifthe seconder isno longer on the call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. My understanding isthat,towithdraw a motion, only
the motion maker needs to state their intention.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you withdraw the motion. Are you making a motion to recommit
instead?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
I MOVE TO RECOMMIT THIS BILL TO MY, OR TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Isthere a second?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 340
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Molina, to recommit
Committee Report 22-62 to the Affordable Housing Committee.
Mr. Krueger?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Yes, Ijustwanted thatclarification,ifthe recommittal
included the entiretyof Committee Report 22-62, as well as Bill101, CD1 (2022)?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the entireCommittee Report 22-62.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright,thank you, Mr. Johnson. Iknow it'sdisappointing,but we'llmake
the billbetter.
So, what isthe next item, Mr. Clerk? Oh, I'm sorry,I didn't,Ididn'ttake a vote. All
those infavor ofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SINENCI.
CHAIR LEE: Two, four,five,six,seven "ayes", two "excused": motion carries. Excused are
Member Sinenci and Pro Temp Kasha [sic],Pro Temp Kama.
And then. Member, Imean, Mr. Clerk, what isthe next item?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the lasttwo items remaining on the agenda are Bills65
and 92, CD1.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can you bringthem up?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Shall Icall-
CHAIR LEE: One at a time.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -testimony-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 341
CHAIR LEE; One at a time. One at a time.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, proceeding with testimony on Bill65 (2022)
first.Chair,there are currentlyno individualssigned up to testifyon thisitem,so we'll
do a lastcall.Ifthere are any individualsinterestedintestifyingon Bill65 (2022) and
have not testifiedon ityet,please identifyyourselfnow. irepeat,thisisour lastcallfor
testimony on thisitem.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto closingtestimony and accepting writtentestimony forBill65-
2022?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 65 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF
LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES, REGARDING THE
ISSUANCE OF A MANAGEMENT RIGHT-OF-ENTRY
FOR BRUSH CLEARING AND PUBLIC PARKING PURPOSES
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 65 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 342
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Mr. Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, to move Bill65
(2022) on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Bill65 would authorize the Mayor
or his authorized representative to execute the management right-of-entrypermit
attached as Exhibit"1"forthe parcelidentifiedlocated in Keawekapu, Kamaole, Maui,
Hawaii.
The agreement would allow for publicparking and the clearingof overgrown brush
from an unencumbered portionof the State of Hawaii land consistingof approximately
.524 acres, as identifiedin Exhibit A.
Budget Directorstated that 100,000 was allocated in the FiscalYear 2023 Budget to
clear the area and create about 50 temporary parking stallsthat can be used
immediately.
Moving fonward, ifthispasses, signage for beach access parking willbe installedto
prohibitparking for commercial or other purposes. And a parking lotattendant or
securityguard may be hired for long-term management and enforcement of parking
restriction.
The right-of-entryisvalidforone calendar year upon approval of the agreement.
And much mahalo to community advocate, shoreline advocate, Ms. Nishiki,for her
efforts.Thank you. Madam Chair.
(Councilmember Sinenci returned to the meeting at 3:23 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. All those in favor of the motion of passing
Bill65 (2022) on second and finalreading,please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTiN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 343
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now we have back, Mr. Sinenci and Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. So,
we have two, three, four,five,six,seven, eight. Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one
"excused": Pro Temp Kama. Motion carries.
Next item. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next item is Bill92, CD1 (2022). We'll calltestimony
on this item at this time. Chair, there are no individuals signed up to testifyon thisitem.
But we'lldo a last call. Ifthere are any individualswho would wish to testifyon this
item,please identifyyourselfnow. Irepeat,thisisour lastcallfortestimony on Bill92,
CD1 (2022).
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto closingpublictestimony and accepting
writtentestimony intothe record forBill92, CD1 (2022)?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 92. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.60, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO A RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR BOARD,
COMMISSION. AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 92, CD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 344
CHAIR LEE; Been moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sinenci, to pass bill
second, Bill92 on second and finalreading,CD1 (2022).
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair,
requirement for board, commission, and committee members to at a minimum, be a
Maui County residentwith a general understanding of Maui County and the challenges
faced by the community.
Bill 92 would establish a
"Resident" isdefined as "a person who meets the requirements of a home exemption
claim under Section 3.48.050, Maui County Code, other than the requirement to own
and occupy realproperty as a principalhome".
Residency by an appointee outside of the County, or failureto report a residency
change outside of the County would justifyremoval from a board, commission, or
committee.
I want to thank our colleague from West Maui, Member Paltin,for introducingthis
legislation.Iask forthe Members fullsupport of thismotion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please
raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
M .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Isee one, two. three,four,five,six,seven, eight"ayes'
Pro Temp Kama. Motion carries.Zero "noes".
one "excused
Mr. Clerk, have we covered allthe items?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 345
CHAIR LEE; Oh, my goodness. Alright,Members, do you have anything you wish to add?
This has been a very confusing day.
Yes, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Justextending my sentiments, safe travels
to our compadres going up to the NACo inColorado.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And we alldittothat. Yeah, safe travelsto all.Any, anything else anyone?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Just want to follow that
blessingsforour members going up to Colorado. Ifyou get a chance, please say aloha
to my daughter. She livesin Denver. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please do. Malia.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Quite a meeting we just had over two
days. And I want to thank allthe Members who submitted billsand we got to,you
know, kind of hash itallout. And appreciate the hard work. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Well, allof your hard work, everyone's hard work is very much
appreciated.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. To, well,Iwas just going to give a word of
caution when you go to Colorado, justbe safe. That isthe land, Ithink they were the
firstState to legalizemarijuana. So, be good.
And then, thank you. Chair,for running the meeting. Iknow you're stilla littlebitunder
the weather and it'snot easy to deal with thisnew Sunshine Law, so thanks forhelping
us navigate through it.And, you know, we'llprobably stillbe navigatingthrough itin
our Committees. But my, my, my predictionisthatour Committees willbe a littlemore,
our Committee meetings may be a littlemore compact now, maybe one or two items
instead of four or five,justknowing thatwe, you know, testimony could take most of
the meeting. So, maybe that'sa good thing?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 15, 2022
Page 346
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Thank you, Member King. Appreciatethe comments. So, everyone, all
of you take care until\A/esee you tomorrow probably. And thismeeting of July 18,
Monday, 2022, itisapproximately 3:28, isnow adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regularmeeting ofJuly 15,2022 was adjourned by the Chair on July 18,2022 at3:28 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF HAWAII
220715/lks:jm
Count^^lerk vTTu7
EricMiyasato<eric@hawaiianlights.com>
Saturday,July9,2022 12:24 PM
County Clerk
From:
Sent: mi JUL11 W 7:58
BillNo. 21,CD1, DPI (2022) (FullCouncilmeeting 7/15/2022}_
Bi,l2lCD1FD1(2022).pdf C^ERK
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
I You don'toftenget email from eric@hawaiianlights.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear County Clerk,
Iwould liketo submit thisemail as my testimony againstBill21 CDl, FDl (2022) in itscurrent
form.
Ihave highlightedthe DELETES (RED) and the proposed CHANGES (Yellow) on the form.
The billstillrequiresALL outdoor fixtures,except for Neon, to be a filterlightwith a ratioof
lessthan 2% blue lightcontent.
Noted exemptions Section 20.35.070
● A.2.Low wattage fixturesused for holidaydecorations.
- What defines Low wattage?
- What defineswhich Holiday?
This does not seem to address the festivals,concertsand specialfairevents.
● B."exceptthattemporary,portablelightingused for emergency servicesincluding
publicsafety,road constructionor emergency repair"
- The exemption forSportsfieldsisvalidas Color rendition isimportant in
outdoor sports and isan industrystandard.
- The exemption foremergency services,could be challengedwith the last
statement which defines" may remain exempt from thischapter beyond the
three-yearperiodif,and foronly as long as,there are no compliant lighting
fixturesavailablethat meet industrystandards foremergency services".
There are a few 2% filteredlightsthatcould be appliedas area or floodlightsin
thisapplication,so what defines "industrystandard" for emergency services.
Also,as mentioned before,thisBillin itscurrent format willrestrictand force the 2% blue light
content for
Outdoors Sales(Carlots,garden areas,etc.)
Outdoor Eating(restaurant,food trucks,etc.)
1
Privatebusinessoutdoorfacilities(Drivingranges,battingcages, hotelTennis courts.
etc.)
^ Alloutdoorfixturesforresidentialproperties.
'■^SpecialillurnihationsofCountyBuildings(examplewould be the County Building
illuminatedinYellow& BlueforUkraineearlierthisyear 2022).
Outdoor-signage (externaland internalilluminatedtypes) located outdoor.
Lasty,1would liketo mention that this Billin itscurrentform willbe a heavy cost expense for
the residentsof the County of Maui.
Ihope thatthe FullCouncilunderstands the implicationswhen voting on thisBill.
Aloha,
Eric Miyasato, P.E.
808-226-5973
2
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL N0.2I, CDl, FDI (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI:
SECTION 1. The purpose of thisOrdinance isto protectnative Hawaiian
seabirdsfrom becoming disorientedby artificiallightsduring theirmaiden flights
from their burrows out to sea. This is often referred to as “fallout” and leaves
the birdsat irskofpredationby cats,mongoose, and other predators, as well as
vulnerable to vehicle collisions and starvation.
NativeHawaiian seabirdsare an important part of Hawaiian history and
were traditionallyused by navigators to find their way back home to their
islands. They also help our fishermen locateschools of ahi and are critical to
our watersheds by helping to fertilizethe soilsand nearshore coral reef habitats
with marine nutrientsfound in theirdroppings.
The Councils intent is to protect native Hawaiian seabirds as much as
possible from interference of onshore sources of artificiallight.
SECTION 2. Section 20.35.060, Maui County Code, isamended to read
as follows:
“20.35.060 General Requirements. A.
lighting fixtures
section20.35.090^^^*
All new outdoor
must comply with the requirements of
All outdoor lightingfixturesthat were legallyinstalled
before January 25, 2007^
B.
must comply with section
20.35.090^1^
s must not be used for new
the replacement of existing
existing mercury vapor
must be removed
^^bv January 2
Alloutdoor lightingfixtures,except forneon, must limit
short wavelength content to no more than two percent of blue light
content. “Blue light content” means the ratio of the amoimt of
energy emitted bv the outdoor light fixture between 400 and 500 nm
divided bv the amoimt of energy between 400 and 700 nm.
E. Alloutdoor lightingfixtures,except forneon, must be:
1. Down directed with no light shining above the
horizontal. Wall-mounted fixturesmust have opaque shields
to direct all Ught down, and, if the light hits a wall surface, the
surface must be non-reflectivefe.g..not a polished or glass
surface: painted surfaces must have matte paintb
2. l^livshielded,indudinfrshieldingthatensuresno light shines over the ocean.
3. The director of public works must develop
administrative rules that set height restrictions for outdoor
lighting within one year of the effective date of this ordinance.
F. The director of public works must establish and
maintflin a listof lightfixturesthat comply with thischapter.”
ercury vapor
outdoor lightingfixtures or
outdoor lightingfixtures,
outdoor lightingfixtures,
All
MWff
SECTION 3. Section 20.35.070, Maui County Code, is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘20.35.070 Exemptions. ^ The following
exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
are
^|ALA11 outdoor lightingfixturesproducinglightdirectly oy the combustion of fossilfuels, such as kerosene
and gasolinqjj].
2^Low wattage fixturesused for holiday decorations
only
- 2 -
re the enactment of this ordinance with the
I ^
provided, that such lightingdxtures shall be subject tO)
5.060.B and 20.35.060.C;
Ct^ Iputdoorlightingfixturesor^a five-minute time limit;
^ (I'ightingon federaland^^^[m||||||||Himiliil^j|||n|urisdictionofthefedera^^^^gj^^||tttnot limited,to,.Haw^
g|M|||||i|«|j|districts,airports,andB. All outdoor lighting fixtures installed or used as
portable lighting prior to the enactment of the ordinance
establishingsubsections20.30.Q6QfDland lElare exempt from the
provisions of those subsections for a period of three years from the
date of enactment of the ordinamce establishing those subsections:
except that temporary, portablelightingused foremergency services
including public safety, road construction or emergency repair, and
road crossing and lighting for sports and athletic fields on state of
Hawaii department of education properties,private school
properties, and County parks and facilitiesmav remain exempt from
this chapter beyond the three-vear period if.and foronly as long as.
there are no compliant lighting fixtures available that meet industry
standards foremergency servicesand sportingevents.”
Ti
SECTION 4. Section20.35.090,Maui County Code, isamended to read
as follows:
20.35.090 Shielding requirements and usage
restrictions.Outdoorlightingflxturesg|||||gmust conform tothe
followingshieldingrequirementsand usage restrictions:
Lamp Type Shielding Requirement Usage Restrictions
Class I
Augmented Fully shielded None
monochromatic
Low pressure sodium Fully shielded None
- 3 -
Metal halide Fully shielded Off from 11:00 p.m. to
sunrise*
All others Fully shielded None
Class II
Augmented Fully shielded None
monochromatic
Low pressure sodium Fully shielded None
Ail others (existing) Fully shielded None
All others (new) Fully shielded None
Class III
Fully shieldedLow pressure sodium None
Fully shieldedHigh pressure sodium None
Off from 11:00 p.m. toNeon None
sunrise*
Fully shieldedOthers None
iFuUv shielded Off from 11:00 p.m. toOthers
sunrise*
Class rV
Fully shieldedExisting None
Fully shieldedLow pressure sodium None
High pressure sodium Fully shielded None
Others Fully shielded None
- 4 -
*These lights may be used between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise ifbusiness or
recreationalactivitiesaretakingplace,but^g|||j|must be turnedoffno laterthan one hour after conclusion of activities.”
SECTION 5. H New material is
underscored. In printing this bill,the County Clerk need not include the
brackets,the bracketed material,or the underscoring.
SECTION 6. This Ordinance takes effecton January 1,2023.
paf:jbf:22-161a
- 5 -
INTRODUCED BY:
^LLY TAKAY/A KING
DIGEST
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 21.CD1. FD1 (2022^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35. MAUI COUNTY
CODE. RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING
This billproposes to amend Chapter 20.35,Maui County Code, to regulatealloutdoor
lightingfixtures,includingswimming and decorativepoollighting,tolimitshortwavelength
contentthatare down directed,fullyshielded,and mounted as low as physicallypossible
to limitlighttrespass and reflectionoff ground surfaces to protect native Hawaiian
seabirdsfrom becoming disorientedby artificiallight.
I.KATHY L. KAOHU, County Clerkof the County of Maui, State of Hawaii, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY thatthe foregoingBILL NO. 21, CD1, FD1 (2022) was passed on
FirstReading by the Council of the County of Maui, State of Hawaii, on the 1st day of
July,2022, by the followingvote:
AYES: Councilmembers GabrielJohnson, KellyT. King,Michael J. Molina,
Tamara A.M. Paltin,Shane M. Sinenci, Vice-Chair Keani N.W.
Rawlins-Fernandez, and Chair Alice L. Lee.
NOES: Councilmember Yuki Lei K. Sugimura.
EXCUSED: Councilmember Natalie A. Kama.
DATED atWailuku,Maul, Hawaii,this8thofJuly,2022.
KATHY L. KAOHU. COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
Copies ofthe foregoingBill,infull,are on fileinthe Officeofthe County Clerk,
County of Maul, foruse and examination by the public.
KupunoCouncil:
Edword Wendt
Carl Wendt
Terrence Akuna
Murphy Tau-a
Jerome Kekiwi,Jr. - President
Norman Martin, Vice-President
EarlInouye - Treasurer
Jennifer Kekiwi-Brown - Secretary
DarrylTau'a - Sgt at Arms
Guy Mahilanihkimahoe
Radford Ko'auamo
NicholeInouye-Nohara
Shane Tegarden
Administrator
Mchealani Wendt
Administrotive Assistant
Amanda Martin
oo 7^July 15, 2022 m
50-Im
O
<
O c3O-nCouncil Chair Alice L. Lee
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
m
O53X KjJ
to
Dear Chair Lee and Members of the Council:
SUBJECT: COUNCIL RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, FD1 “PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT
TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),AS AMENDED, TO
ESTABLISH A MAUI NUI COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS AND AN EAST MAUI
REGIONAL COMMUNITY BOARD”
For over 30 years offightingallthe powers thatbe - the state,county,laborunions,big
corporations,theirvast network of supporters,here we are today. When you thinkabout the
historyofthe East Maui waters,thisfightdates back to the 1800’s.
The dewateringofthe streams deprivedallthe people of East Maui and greatlyimpacted all
of our communities. Itwas so heartbreakingformany not to see water in the rivers. The
entireEast Maui was diverted- the largestdiversionsever. These are crown lands that
belong tothe people. We are protectingour constitutionalrightswhich isnative rightsinthe
publictrust.
We need to gain controlover our own water rights.Hawaii’s publictrustresources should be
controlledby Hawai’i.A foreignfor-profitentityshould not be managing or controllingour
water in East Maui. They willmanage itintheirown best interestand not the interestof the
county, nor the publictrust.They are responsibleto theirshareholders to make a profit.
DHHL supports the County receivingthe leases because a privateforeign entityhas no
obligationto uphold the publictrustdoctrineor the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act which
guarantee water to Hawaiian Homes. They have had troublegettingwater under the current
lease agreement.
P.O. Box 81642, Ha’iku, HI 96708 Namokuaupuniokoolauhui@gmail.com (808) 248-4401
There isplentyofwaterforeveryone ifthesystem isfixedand thewatershed ismanaged
properly.We want to be surethatwe focuson growingour water supply forfuture
generations.
We have the expertiseand in-depthknowledge thatcan properly manage the watershed and
efficientlyrestorethe eco system. We have the most hands-on experience and generational
knowledge of anyone involvedand needed to properlymanage the watersheds.
What we want iscommunity partnership,management, and stewardship. It’sbeen four years
since streams were restored in our moku and we have done everything withinour power and
means to be good stewards. This isnot a business propositionfor us, but one of sacred
kuleana!
We have no quarrelwith company operativeson the ground and our community currentlyhas
a good relationshipwith representativesfrom the company. Like Maui County we support
agricultureand want to see everyone succeed. We have never denied any farmer or
business access to water. Upgrading the system on publicand privateland benefits
everyone.
The time isnow to take controlof our water! Our community’s mission isto be good
stewards of the land and its resources. We want a seat at the tablealways when East Maui
water isconcerned or any issue concerning East Maui. We remain open toworking withall
stakeholders to move forward in a pono way.
Thank you forthe opportunityto testify.
Aloha
Amanda M. Martin
Amanda M. Martin
Administrative Assistant
(808) 248-4401Namokuaupuniokoolauhui@gmail.comP.O. Box 81642, Ha’iku, HI 96708
Count^^kt^
received
Ml JUL15 m 7:2(5
K Martin <ikuwa74@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 4:33 PM
County Clerk
Testimony forCR 22-16 / Bill22119
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
office of the
COUNTY CLERKYou don'toften get email from ikuwa74@gmail,com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha my name isKalae Martin,
Iam a kanaka maoli born on the islandof Maui. My parents were one of the firstresidentson E.
Waipuilani Road and have livedthere since 1972. Iam deeply concerned with The Hale Waipuilani
Housing development CR22-61 and the negativeimpact itwillcontribute.Ioppose thisprojectforthe
followingreasons:
1) Flooding:Ihave personallyexperienced nature'sfuryover the years from tsunamis,hurricanes,
brush firessome of which resulted in evacuation to safershelterand higherground. The most common
threatwe endure isflooding.There’s been numerous times these roads are closed due to
inaccessibilityand floodingintoneighboringhomes resultinginconsiderable damage.
2) Road Safety:Igrew up on Waipuilaniwhen therewas no access to LiloaStreet,itwas safe to play
ball,rideyour bikefreelyon the road.As timepassed the road opened, paved withspeed bumps and
became very unsafe due tothe factthatpeople speed on the road with disregardto the posted 20mph
signs.MPD isnotoriousforflyingdown the road athigh speeds. We keep our kidsinthe house or play
inthedrivewayunder adultsupervision.There’smany pedestrians,bicyclistsand now electricbikes
thatspeed up the roads.There are no sidewalkstowalk on.
S. KiheiRd. Another busy and dangerous road.Even though there’scrosswalks it’shard to see
pedestriansbecause of lackof lighting.
SeveraloccasionsWaipuilaniroad becomes gridiockedwith trafficdue to detours foraccidents and
road work. The projectwould cause more traffic.
3)Work Force Housing:Itwas suggestedinpastzoom meetings these housing would be idealfor
policeofficers,firefighters,nurses and possiblya working young adultALU livingtogether.For me who
has an employed young adultson.Ican tellyou he would not be interestedinthe priceand size or
probablyqualifyforthistype of housing.So ifwe’re not making it“reasonably affordable”forlocal
residentsthen who are we attracting?How do we get localfamiliesintoactual homes?
4) Kuleana; Inthe lastzoom meeting on thisprojectIfeltmy na’au (gut)lead me ina differentdirection
to address our kuleana as kanaka. Therefore,Isuggested the developers ho’olohe (listen)to the
kupuna who have personallyexperiencedlivingthereformany years.We each have the kuleana to be
good stewards of what God has entrusted in our care which ishis‘ainaand one another.This type of
project is not idealforthisresidentialarea and an a’ole for me.
Finally,I’minsupportof bill22119 as a Kalo farmer,it'simportantthatour community and our county
use our water resources, not a corporation.We’ve seen inthe past what corporationshave done. This
billshould be put on the ballotto vote.
Mahalo foryour time
1
Count^Clerk KbtnVhU
marty.cdb@gmail.com
Thursday,July14,2022 10:42AM
County Clerk
Committee Report No. 22-62
From:
Sent: im JUL 14 AH II-10To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom marty.cdb@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
The Honorable Ms. Alice Lee
Chair,Council ofthe County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Re: Committee Report No. 22-62
FirstReading of Bill107, CD1 (2022)
Dear Chair Lee,
Iam an Stateof Hawaii licensedarchitectand generalcontractor;residingon Maui forthe last30
years.
Ido notsupportBill107, CD1 (2022),initscurrentform.
Ihave participatedinseveralworkforcehousing projectsboth as an architectand builder,including
one of my own projects:
● NapiliHau Villages- As the architect.
● lao Parkside - As the architect.
● Nanea - As the architect.
● Pi’ilani1 and 2 - As the architect.
● Waikapu Gardens 1 and 2 - As the architect.
● Kahoma - As the architect.
● Waiale Elua - As the architect.
● Kua’ainaMauka - As the architect,builderand partowner.
Local Builderslegitimatelystruggleto provideaffordablehousing, on Maui, under the currentprice
guidelinesand exponentiallyincreasingcosts;thus Maui ends up lackinginventorythatmeets the
current sales priceguideline.
Allbuildersarefacedwithuncertaintyregardingmaterialsprices,labor prices and State Federal and
County regularityred-tape;thereforemost contractorsare now leaning towards providingonly cost
plus contracts.
These types of contacts do not leave room forAffordableunits.
1
Making Affordablehousing even harderto providewillreduce the number of units even further.
Affordablehousing buildersare faced withthe additionalriskof an increaseinthe prevailinginterest
rate,which serves to lower sales prices and increase their out of pocket costs.
»l -11 J'
By loweringthe affordablehousing sales prices,ina perfectworld Maui residentswould be able to
qualifyforand purchase affordablehousing.
However, this Billwould resultinthere not being any homes availablethat meet the “Affordable
guidelines.
Iam a fatherof 3 childrenand 4 step children;5 that liveinthe islands and three that livehere on
Maui.
One liveswith my wife and I.
One lives with her in-laws.
And the lastone, a singlemom with three young children;issupported by my wife and me.
Please leave the Affordablesales pricesintheircurrentform; inmy opinionthe County could best
assistlocalbuilders’efforts,inbuildingaffordablehousing, by providing:
● Basic publicinfrastructurerequiredforhousing.
● Reducing the enormous amount County driven“redtape”.
● Providingsubsidiesto the Buyers.
Thank you forconsideringmy testimony
Best Regards,
Marty Cooper
CWA Ventures, LLC - License 7350-A, Principal Architect
Cooper Design Build,Inc.- License BC 27530, RME /General Contractor
246 Papa Place Unit2, Kahului,HI
PO Box 1062, Puunene, Hawaii 96784
Cell: 808 870 3274
Alldesigns, plans,specificationsand other contractdocuments (includingailelectronicfiles)preparedby CWA Ventures,LLC shall
remainthepropertyofCWA Ventures, LLC and CWA Ventures, LLC retainsallrightsthereto,includingbutnotlimitedtocopyright,
statutoryand common-law rightstheretounless otherwisespecifiedby contract.No design changes or decisionsmade by e-mailshall
be considered partof the contractdocuments unless otherwise specified,and alldesign changes and/ordecisionsmade by e-mailmust
be submitted as an RFI or a submittal unless otherwise specified.
This e-mail iscovered by the ElectronicCommunications PrivacyAct,18 U.S.C.2510-2521, and islegallyprivileged.Unauthorized
review, use, disclosureor distributionisstrictlyprohibited.Ifyou are not the intended recipient,pleasecontactthe sender at808 873
0292 or by replye-mail,and destroy the originaland allcopies ofthe message. Allrights,includingcopyright,reserved.Thank you.
county.clerk(®mauicounty.us
2
RECEiVEDJim Hayes <jim@psi-hi.com>
Friday,July15,2022 12:12PM
County Clerk
Jordan Molina
Jim Hayes testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
mUUL 15 pm2:35Cc:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfromjim@psi-hi.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Dear Clerk,
Iprovidedoraltestimonytoday justbeforethe lunch break. Councilmembers asked thatIprovidemy testimonyin ■
writing.They also asked thatIshare the DraftEnvironmentalAssessment (DEA) with them. Iunderstand that
DirectorMolina issending the DEA to the Councilmembers via email.
My testimony follows:
My name isJim Hayes. Iam theprincipalplanneratPlanningSolutions,Inc.inHonolulu.
I am testifyingon BillNo. 21,CDl, FDI (2022).Iam not a paid lobbyist.
I haveyearsofexperienceassessingimpactstothreatenedand endangered seabirdsin Hawai‘i. I led a team
thatrecentlycompleted a Draft EnvironmentalAssessment of the proposed Maui County Streetlight
Conversion Project.The Draft Environmental Assessment will appear in the July 23 editionof The
Environmental Notice.
The Maui CountyStreetlightConversionProjectinvolvesthereplacementoftheapproximately4,900County-
owned streetlightfixtures.Itwould involvethe removal of theexistingHigh PressureSodium (HPS) light
fixturesand the installationof fully-shielded,energy-savingLight Emitting Diode (LED) streetlight
fixtures.The LEDs would havea eorrelatedcolortemperature(CCT) of 2700K, they could be wirelessly
controlled,and theycomply withexistingadministrativerules.The projectincludesthe implementationof
adaptivelightingtoavoidand minimizeimpactstowildlife;thosemeasureswould includingdimming,when
and where appropriate.
In the Draft Environmental Assessment we consider an alternativethatwould utilizea lowerbluelightcontent
streetlight,suchastheone thatwould be requiredunder Bill21. That alternativewas eliminated,and Bill21
reeonsidered,forthefollowingreasons:
● A lowerbluelightcontentalternativewould notprovidebettershielding,which isthemost critical
elementof lightingtoavoidand minimize impactstoseabirds.
● The potentialwildlifeimpactsassociatedwith an alternativethatused a low blue lightcontent
fixturecountywide would likelybe similartotheimpactsassociatedwiththeproposedconversion
project.There aretwo main reasons forthis:
- First,thereisno evidencethatseabirdlightattractionwould be meaningfullyreducedusing
a low blue lightcontentfixture.Itisimportantto note thatthe U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Serviceand FlawaiT’sDepartment of Land and NaturalResource do not mention using a
low bluelightproducttoavoidand minimizeimpactsto Hawaiian seabirds.
Second, theproposed conversionproject’sadaptivelightingmeasures, includethe use of
low blue lightfixturesin certainshorelinesituations.This is important because itissea
turtles,not seabirds,thatare adverselyaffectedby blue light.
● That duringthe2016 demonstrationprojecton Maui Lani Parkway we learnedthatresidentsand
agency representativespreferstreetlightsthathave more than 15 percentblue light.The public
and safetyagencieswould finda low bluelightalternativeunappealing and potentiallydetrimental
totheirsafety,as testifierEricMiyasato demonstrated.
1
● Furtherconsideringsafety,theCounty of Maui PoliceDepartmenttoldusthatLED lightingis
recommended ina policytitled“Crime PreventionThrough EnvironmentalDesign.”LEDs are
recommended becausetheyallowcolorsand objectstobemorevisibleandappearsharper.These
benefitsareonlyrealizedwhen theLED producea broadspectrumoflight.A low bluelightLED
would notproducea broadspectrumoflightand,therefore,be inconsistentwiththedesiresofthe
Maui PoliceDepartmentand theCrime PreventionTliroughEnvironmentalDesignpolicies.
Have a good day,
Jim Hayes
PrincipalEnvironmental Planner
Planning Solutions, Inc.
711 KapiolaniBoulevard, Suite 950
Honolulu, Hawai'i 96813-5213
0: 808-550-4559; C: 808-354-4553
www.psi-hi.com
2
Count^^lerk
RickAlexander <frankrickalexander@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:49 PM
County Clerk
We Don,t Need: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
' You don'toftengetemailfromfrankrickalexander@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for local families Not PILGRIMS From THE MAINLAND Who Haven't Been on Maui For Atleast 10
Years Plus.We support A ffordableHousing For Real LOCALS
Please Don't Vote in favor of Resolution 22-61. This Housing Project Will Not Be For Real LOCAL Familiesand ButBecome
Market housingforoffshorePILIGRIM HAOLE Buyers.
Mahalo! Rick Alexander
OoO "n
CTJ
20
cr m
o"im-< mon
<
m-i
7)X
7; m
m● ●
Q
05
1
County Clerk
RickAlexander <frankrickalexander@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5:13 PM
County Clerk
We Don't Support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at HaleWaipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from frankrickalexander@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui Need Affordable Homes for Real LOCAL FAMILIES But Not InThat LOCATION. 1stIt'sNot The Proper Area Because
Of WETLANDS and FLOODING ETC. We Need To Find Areas That Has Proper INFRASTRUCTURE To Allow That LOCALS ARE
SAFE.
PLEASE VOTE NO FOR Resolution22-61.We Do Support housing for REAL LOCAL FAMLIES WHO BEEN ON ISLAND AT
LEAST 10 YEARS PLUS. We Have Enough PILGRIM HAOLES That Claim To Be Needing ThisType Of Housing Then Few
Years Later Sell And Move Out And Then The REAL LOCALS GOTTA MOVE CHECK IT OUT DO YOUR HOMEWORK YOU
WILL SEE IT.
Mahaiol Rick Alexander
OC
C TS
50“im
73
m
o
m●<
OO <
mm -H
O\_n
'O
1
Date: 7/14/22
To: The Honorable Councilwoman Alice Lee:
From: Wade Hondo
RE: Bill21 - Outdoor LightingBill
RECEi vED
MW JUL15 AH 8=05
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo the Honorable Councilwoman Alice Lee:
The MIL isconcerned with the followingissues thatwillaffectthe 4-5000 student athletesas well
as the many students,parents and supportersfrom the 13 differentschools thatmake up the Maui
InterscholasticLeague. Sports highlyimpacted willbe football,cheer, girlsand boys soccer, swimming
and diving,baseball,softball,track and field,tennis and water polo but the effectswillbe feltby all
disciplines.
Our concerns includethe following:
● Funding - Willthere be enough funding to make the necessary changes? With thisbill
being all-encompassing,the concern iswhere the lightsassociated with high school youth
athleticevents fallregardingpriorityinthe budget. The risingcost of equipment and
shippingexpenses are being feltat alllevels.We are concerned that now thateverything is
more expensive, itwilltake longer to secure the funds withinthe exemption period and the
nightgame opportunitiesthatwe have been afforded by State and County venues forour
student-athleteswillbe taken away.
● Timelinessofchanging ofequipment - County and the DOE have differentprocedures and
protocols. Because of the constant use of the facilitiesby both the schools and the
community, the concern isthe length of time needed to make the changes. Shutting down
fieldsforextended periods of time to make these changes willimpact practicetimes and
availabilityto hold MIL and stateevents. Iam unclearhow itworks with the County
regardinghow they schedule major projects.With the DOE, projectshave already been
linedup, some formany years,which may put thisprojectoutside the exemption window.
● Maintenance, upkeep and updating equipment - We are concerned that there willbe
enough funding availableto do allofthese things.We are concerned that there are a very
limitednumber of companies thatare trainedto fixissues regarding these types of light
fixturesand there isproper equipment on the islandto do so. The Department of Education
has theirown procurement system and itdoes take time to secure funding and get
approved vendors.
● Projects already being planned and funded - The concern isthat other projectswillbe put
on the side inorder to satisfythisrequirement. We are inthe design phase to get new
locker rooms-dance-weight room facilities.Baldwin High School also justrecentlygot
funding forthe design phase of a girlslockerroom. 1 am personally concerned that a
projectto create lightingcompliance willnow put those criticalprojectswe have waited
years foron hold and, again, our student-athletesand allthose students that are required to
take PE in the school will continue to lose out.
As the MIL baseball coordinator,many schools relyon County facilitiesto support theirprograms.
Maehara stadium isconsidered one of the flagshipgrass stadiums in the state and iswhere 2 MIL teams
hold practicesand iswhere our MIL baseball pre-season, regular season and postseason games are
played. In addition,the HHSAA state tournament isheld here every 3 years which brings inteams from
Oahu and the Big Islandand istelevisedon OC16. The statetournament being on Maui allowsour Maui
teams to save money on travelas wellas allowsfamily,friendsand the community an opportunitytowatch
our student-athletesin-personcompete againstthe best in the state.
2P -e ^ I Jui-
Our baseballspecificconcerns are the following:
H r ● officialshortageandhavebeenforsometime.Mostofthese
3 officialshave primaryjobsand umpiringistheirsecond job. Having games atnightallows
these officialsto finish work and then make itto the fieldintime to umpire.
● Safety - We are concerned that changes made to the lightswillaffectthe abilityforplayers
to track down the baseball (flyballs,foulballs,infieldhits,etc.).Heat Illnessisalso a
concern ifday games are the only option.
● Access to the community - Most parents work during the day and most teams need to travel
to get to the stadium. Night games allow parents and supporters to attend afterwork and
allow players to play afterschool isdone. Not being able to have nightgames because
lightsare not availablewillput strainon the familieswanting to see theirkids play and a
strainon the players who want theirfriendsand familythere to support them.
● Scheduling - Division1 plays a 12 game schedule plus an MIL tournament which is
supported by the factthatwe can have nightgames so multipleteams can play at one
central venue at Maehara stadium. Ifwe were unable to have nightgames, we would need
to play at multiplefieldsand would be limitedby daylightwhich puts a strainon the officials
being limitedto only officiating1 game due to locationand we would need to startearlier.
To get our game season inand to ensure games could be played completely (beforewe run
out of daylight)would mean pullingkids out of school and we are concerned thatwould put
a strain on their academic success.
● Opportunities-With practicesand games confinedto daylighthours,thereisan inequity
created with opportunitiesforour student-athletesin“prime”event hours. Student-athletes
on Maui willlose opportunitiesthatotherstudent-athletesinthe statehave and thatwould
put them at a disadvantage forsuch things as scholarshipsand recruitment. Most state
tournaments have the higher ranked games at night(higherranked opening match-ups,
quarterfinals,semifinalsand championship games) and ifour kidsare not used to playing
under the lightsitisagain a disadvantage.
We are asking thatthe Billbe sent back to committee so thatthese concerns can be addressed
and thatthere isa solidplan that has been developed and in place to help ensure that our
student-athletes,student body, familiesand community supporters inthe MIL do not lose out again. We
are tryingto speak and representthe many student-athletesand stakeholderswho have gone through so
much with the shutdown of seasons and the restrictions that continue to be in place with high school
sports. We are concerned thatunintended issues created by thisbillmay/willbecome an additional
burden and affectour children and our community's social-emotionalrecovery invery negative ways at a
criticaltime where they are juststartingto see thingsget better.
Thank you foryour time and consideration.
Aloha:
Wade Hondo
Count^CleH<
AH Committee
Friday,July15,2022 9:07AM
County Clerk
FW; Opposing waipuilanihalebuilding
From:
Sent: RECEIVED
mi JUL 15 WI2=34
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
—Original Message—
From: JenniferChapman <chapman8187@hotmail.com>
Sent:Thursday,July14,2022 8:49 PM
To: AliceL.Lee <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>; AH Committee <AH.Committee@mauicounty.us>; Keani N. Rawlins
<Keani.Rawiins@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama <Tasha.Kama(g)mauic ounty.us>; Gabe Johnson
<GabeJohnson(5)mauicounty.us>; KellyKing<Kelly.King(5)mauicounty.us>;Mike J.Molina
<Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin<Tamara.Paltin@mau icounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci
<Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>;YukileiSugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Opposing waipuilanihalebuilding
[Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom chapman8187@hotmail.com. Learnwhy thisis
importantat https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
> Aloha
>
> My name isJenniferChapman and my husband and Iown a house atthe addressof 36 e Waipuilanird.Directly
acrossfrom the proposed new development. I'dliketo firstsay thatwe inthisneighborhood have never said we
don'twant work forcehousingoraffordablehousingforother localworking classresidents.We are WORKFORCE
working classresidentsMM work inhospitalityasa waitressand my husband isinconstruction,and many others in
the neighborhoodarealsointhetourismIndustry.
>
> Ifeelthe developers have twisteda lotof our concerns to fitthe narrative for them to move forward with a project
that as they callitisa "fill-in"we do not want a "fill-in"condominium because let'sbe honest 28 unitsisnot a single
familystructureina multisinglefamilyneighborhood.The developershave been offereda landswap and have
declinedbecause"itwilltaketo long"Why Cram somethingintosuch a smallspace that isnotoriousforflooding,
nighttrafficect..ThaiisbecauseThisprojectisn'tfor the people it'sabout profitand cuttingcorners.But they keep
sayingthey are doing thisforthe community?!
>
> Some ofmy/ our biggestconcernsforsomething thatlargeare:
>
> -There are no lightshere inthe eveningsit'sblackas can be and no sidewalks.Ipersonallyand a few other wear
LED vestswhen walkingineveningsearlymornings.I'vehad 2 petsrun over by cars.People speed down thisroad all
the time,yes even withthe speed bumps. Ask the policehow many ticketsthey writefornot stoppingat a stopsign
rightup the road.
>
> - People have been hitby carsrightinthisarea and on south kiheird.There aren't well marked crossingareas,and
no one reallyever stops day or nightunlessyou are the pediatricianand get a littleaggressiveto cross,and again no
side walks.Adding 28 unitson a crowded road with speeding and small intersectionwith no trafficlightsin a family
neighborhood setspeople up formore accidentsand trafficissuesect.Not to mention back up trafficwhen piilani
highway isshut down or south kiheird....
>
> - Floodingisrealhere look what happened in December 2021 as 1
> example the damage ismostly from allthe "fill-in"development that didn'tallowthe water to navigate
appropriatelyor naturally,damaging many peoples homes, condos, carsect....Itmay not happen allThe time but it
WILL and DOES happen.
1
>
> -Parking;Thereisverylimitedoffroadparking;thisprojectisprojecting3 guestparkingspots?28 units 2
unitwith60 parkingspotsisgoingtoend up justlikeKihelvillageswhere peoplehavetoparkon otherroads, and
neighborhoods and walk home inthe dark,thisisnot wellThought out cramming as much as possibleintoa small
space forprofitand againno sidewalks!!!
cars per
>
> -In'Dfiebf6urs7donhmeetingswhen we askedthedeveloperswhere theygottheiraveragefamilyincome numbers
from they saiditwas based offa mother and fatherworking 2 JOBS! And a childof age to work a smalljob to
contributeto paying the mortgage....Tm sorryWHAT?I Does thatseem likeany type of lifeforanyone? The average
maui house holdjhcome as of 2020 is72k on the highend 36k lower end. How about the mother with a new born,
how doesshework'ijobspaychildsupportanddaddo the same? Seems likea fantasyon someone else'send who
doesn't reallyhave a familystructureto base factsoffof.Even with a income of 72k the familiesthey are proposing
to,at 20% down willneed 140k as a down payment fora house at 700k that's"affordable"especiallyInthe market
now....
>
> For reference my husband and Iin2016 bought our house itwas a bank
> owned at 570k we were only able to do thisbecause at the time there
> was a deal for 3% down and no PMI insurance. That was 19k down we at
> that time as thingshave changed over the past 2 years with Covid made
> 140k combined (and thisiswhat we could afford)....I'm curious how
> the work forcethe developers keep tryingto "help"are going to do
> 140k down when we are workforce and barelyhad 19k?...
>
> Another question How long on the market willthisbe open to localsbefore they open itup to anyone on the
market to buy? LastIheard from them itwas 90days how about we wait 1 yeargivingthe localwork forcetime to
gather that down payment?
>
> Lastlythe partthat reallyupset us the most was when Doyal Betsil
> basicallytriedto talkmy neighbor intosigningover hiseasement with out explainingwhy..SUPER SHADY. Hank
was toldit'sjustprotocolbut when he went to get itsignedatthe notaryshe askedwhy would you signhisrights
away to hisProperty???Good questionhow much integritydo theseguys actuallyhave inhelpingthe community..
And againhe triedto strongarm Hank to do itafterHank saidno,atthatPointwe ailsaidno don'tdo that...Hank is
a oldergentleman who reallybelievesthatpeople areoutto helphim and do thingsoutofkindnessand integrity
thiswas from a placeof greed and deceit.
>
> This isnot the rightprojectforthisarea but thisprojectisneeded
> justnot inthissmallspace....Stickingto the originalplanthatthis
> neighborhood was developed as,4 singlefamilyhomes and a few ohanas
> can stillbe affordableand help other work force resistants...
> squeezingas many unitsas you can to make profitwhen it'snot safe
> or even zoned for is unreasonable and that's what the 200 signatures
> were for...
>
> Mahalo for your time
Jennifer Chapman
Sent from my iPhone
2
Count^£ler^
AH Committee
Friday,July15,2022 9:07AM
County Clerk
FW: Againstthe "Waipuilanihale'
From:
Sent:
RECEIVEDTo:
developmentSubject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From: gabrielkrueger <aspsgabe@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, July14, 2022 10:11 PM
To: AH Committee <AH.Committee@mauicounty.us>
Cc:AliceL Lee <Alice.Lee(5)mauicounty.us>;KeaniN. Rawlins <Keani.Raw!ins@mauicounty.us>; Tasha A. Kama
<Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicount y.us>; KellyKing
<Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>;Mike J.Molina <Mike.Molina(5)mauicounty.us>; Tamara A. Paltin
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; Shane M. Sinenci<Shane.Sinenci@m auicounty.us>;YukileiSugimura
<Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Againstthe "Waipuilanihale"development County TESTIMONY 7/14/ 2022
Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom aspsgabe@Qmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
My name isGabrielE Krueger residentof36 E waipuilanird.
Here are some talkingpointswithmy additionalcomments. My perspectiveiscoming from a contractor,
which iswhat 1do fora livingand as a resident.
● New Housing should not be locatedinhigh-riskareas,such as floodzones (Why isthe county
consideringthisprojectand consideringan exemption,when other residentshave to abide by the
county laws with no exceptions/exemptions)
●This oversizeddevelopment ispoorlyplaced ina flood plainand notoriousfloodzone. (The lot
should be 4-5 single-familydwellingswith ohanas, likethe adjacent neighborhood)
● The area inparticularhas an aging infrastructure,no sidewalks, and no stormwater management
system. (Duringthe day Waipuilanird has alreadyway to much trafficand walking /biking
pedestrianshave nowhere to go except the middle ofthe road.)(pets/childrenare high riskfor
accidents)
● This high-densityprojectwillincreasetrafficproblems forlocalresidentsand South Maui. (These
intersectionsare already maxed out and added 28 unitsand the people associated to that isway
too much....more people more cars more accidents)
● This Developer has a long historyof buildinginwetlands, and floodzones, and degrading the
watershed. (When my house was builtaround 1991 the FEMA maps were not updated as they
are now. Kihei isalready a disasterwhen itcomes to excess rain as we found out on December
12th 2021...mud slides)
● Approx 200 localresidentssigned a petitionagainstthisproject,but the developers have now
created a "counter-petition".(The counter-petitionifsigned by someone who has no clue about
thisarea,we do need more affordablehousing...100% but not here,)
● Local residentshave informedthe Builderabout the potentialharm to Archeological Sites (including
nearshore fishponds)etc.Residents have repeatedlyinformed Builders about flooding issues,
trafficproblems,and pedestriansafetyissues.(Thisproposed development needs to live
somewhere where itwould fitintothe community)
1
●The Developer’srepresentativehas been disingenuouswiththe localresidentsatseveralmeetings
and has repeatedlyfailedto providemeeting minutesand reportsthatwere requested and
promised tothe residents.(Red flag)
● Documents not shared by the Developer with residentsincludeTrafficreports,CulturalReports,
Meeting Minutes, etc.(Red flag)
●Trafficproblems decrease area safety,by increasingthe number of residentsneeding evacuation
duringnaturalhazards,tsunamis,etc.(Again4-5 homes not 28)
(AIncreasedTrafficreduces the abilityof EMS toaccess these areas and reduces theirabilityto
provide timely responses. (More trafficmore problems, thinkingwe have a lotof issues to deal
with before we add more problems with no solution)
● This proje.ct.isasking forexemptions to Zoning laws and SMA requirements.(Why do we give
exemptions to something thatclearlyshouldn'tbe there,please use common sense)
● The projectdoes not solve housing problems forlocalpeople (50 percent or more could be sold to
new residentsfrom the mainland etc).(Red flag)
● There isan OCEAN of water 4' below my propertywhich sitsapprox 6' above sea level,inother
words, there isnot much room forthe ground to absorb rain or flood water in thisarea which is
why FEMA declared ita floodzone.
● Potentialowners should be aware of how many red flagsand negative community outlook,the
developers are avoiding buildingthis,do they reallyhave the owner's best interestsin mind when
itcomes to long-term value and safety? Shouldn’t the developers buildon the best piece of
property? Not a fill-in,low-levellotthat isnot idealfora massive development.
My biggestred flagisthe factthat Dwayne Betsillwas walking the neighborhood askingmy neighborsto giveup the
rightto theireasement. Asking them to signpaperwork they had no clueas to what itwas regarding.Thistellsme
that they needed more square footage to get more buildingsapproved. Luckily,the neighborcame to theirsenses
before signingthisover,which iswhy the proposed development issmallernow. Thistellsme thatthisdeal,from
the beginning,was and iswrong. Unfortunately,the originalbuyer of the lotwas going to build4-5 homes with
ohanas and was outbid at the lastminute by the currentgroup, ithasn'tbeen rightfrom the beginningand never
willbe. Ifthisgoes through thisarea of Kiheiwillbe foreveraffectednegatively.The trickle-downeffectwillaffect
other areas as well.
As our county representatives,please use common sense, Yes,we need more housing in Maui that may be priority
#1. However, itneeds to be builtin the correct area where itfitsintothe localsurroundings.Ichallengeyou as our
county leadersto imagine what thisprojectwould do to thisarea.
Please use common sense, we are counting on you to do the rightthing.
Gabriel E Krueger
'iQ Virus-free,www.avast.com
2
/N^HawaiianCommunity
? Assets
HAWAI !
COMMUNITY
LENDIf^Gr
o ^
mJuly 15, 2022 2o Om
-< ut m
oo <
m-i
33X
X m
RE: Opposed with Recommendations Bill107, CDl m<3P
ao
x:
Aloha e Councilmembers,
Iam writingon behalf of localnonprofits,Hawaiian Community Assets and Hawaii Community Lending,
to oppose Bill107, CDl in itscurrent form and recommend amended language.
The updated sales price guidelines proposed in the billMUST be contingent upon the Council
committing the subsidy required for our local, low-income residents to become homebuvers and
affordable builders to recoup their construction costs.
Our organizationshave provided guidance to the County Councilon three separate occasions,explaining
this:first,inthe Maui County Comprehensive AffordableHousing Plan that you contracted us to
complete and which we submitted on June 30, 2021, second, during our presentation to the Affordable
Housing Committee on November 29, 2021, and third,in our writtentestimony for the June 30, 2022
AffordableHousing Committee hearinginwhich we asked the Council to amend Bill107.
Despite our efforts,councilmembers informed us that the County has the abilityto commit subsidiesto
our local,low-income residentsto meet the updated salespriceguidelinesproposed in Bill107. In our
team's review of the currentCounty code,we have concluded the County infactdoes NOT currently
have the abilityto provide the subsidiesto our localpeople to meet the update salespriceguidelines
as they are proposed.
Passage of Bill107 in itscurrent form could slow - or at worse, halt altogether - the development of
homes our low-income, localpeople desperately need and at the same time, reduce the few 100%
affordablebuilderswe are heavilyreliantupon.
The Councilcan stilltake actionto remedy the situationby amending the billas follows:
C. Salesprice- dwellingunits.The standard salespriceof a new dwelling unit [shall]must be
establishedby the department based on currentHUD [price]income guidelinesf.l.and must
include principal and interest, capped at 31 percent of the homeowner's gross monthly income.
The subsidized sale price of a new dwelling unit must be established by the department based
on current HUD income guidelines, and must include principal, interest, taxes, homeowner's
insurance, mortgage insurance (ifapplicable), and homeowner's association dues capped at 31
percent of the homeowner's gross monthly income. Subsidized sale price guidelines, or price
guidelines between the standard and subsidized sale price guidelines, proportionate to countv
subsidies, will be effective upon commitment by the council of subsidies for home purchase,
made available to local residents on the county's affordable housing listupon project approval.
Ifsubsidies are not committed bv the council, the new dwelling unit will be held to the standard
sale price guidelines.
/N^HawaiianCommunity
?;^iASSETS
HAWAII
COMMUNITY
" LENDING
o:
Th^roposedlanguageisconsistentwiththerecommendationsinthe Maui CountyComprehensive
Affordable Housing Plan.Itisbased offmath inour homeownership proforma,developed by first
collectingthe greatestamount of data possiblefrom localbuilderson theircoststo constructand then
ass^sedbysubjectmatterexpertsonourteampriortomakingtherecommendationintheplan.
Amending Bill107, CDl with the proposed language isa commonsense approach to affordable
housing development. Itwould ensure that both our local,low-income familiesare able to purchase
homes at pricesthey can afford and our affordable housing builderscan buildand recoup construction
costs.
1hope thiscouncilwillconsider thisamended language as a way to move forward on affordable housing
for our localpeople, builtby our localbuilders.
Feel free to contact me directlyat 808.587.7653 or ieff@hawaiiancommunitv.net should you have any
questions or need additionalinformation.
Sincerely
Jeff Gilbreath
Executive Director
Hawaii Community Lending
RECEiV'EO
& 12The “affordable” condominium project proposed on Waipuilani Rd in Kihei
of Haste Makes Waste.
OFFICE OF THEYes, we need affordable homes to be available for purchase by our localr^Sgilgr^^y
Itisdebatable as to how affordablethisprojectreallyis.Most people seeking affordable
housing fallinto income levelsbelow what these condos willbe offeredat.Interestratesare
rising,making loans even harder to get. These unitscould easilyfallintomarket ratesales.
Affordable homes need to be good quality and must provide a healthy and sustainable
environment that supports good community development. There must be a long view in
the planning of affordable homes.
This projectisvery short sighted.
1. Itis located in an area that is known to flood regularly,sometimes catastrophically,
causing ruinto our near shore waters and damage to existing homes. These problems
willbe exacerbated by thisproject.
2. Itisinan area that has no sidewalks, curbs, guttersor drainage infrastructure.The
developer istryingto exempt themselves from supplying these basic needs.
3. The density of housing and parking on thissmall sitewillbe very uncomfortable for
unsuspecting new as well as existingresidents.Itwillbe a heat island.Good
community lifewillnot be promoted.
4. The sitedrainage proposals willnot work, and they would be very “unaffordable” to
try to maintain.
- Pervious concrete willnot remain pervious due to dust and mud infiltration.
- Grass pavers cannot be watered when cars are parked on them.
- Water storage tanks beneath the buildingsare not effectivein floods
Itwould be far less damaging to allow the existingR-3 zoning to prevail in this case. The
impact on flooding and congestion would likelybe much less. There would be fewer than
halfthe number of parking spaces required even ifthe sitewere able to be developed to
maximum capacity which itprobably would not be. Itis a misunderstanding that thisisa
neighborhood of offisland owners. The offisland owners are concentrated inthe Maui Sunset
Condominium complex nearby.Residentialhomes builton thissitewould probably be sold to
local families,not off islanders who tend to livein condominiums or resort communities.
Ideallythis site should be an example of wetland restoration where the most good can be
done to recreate balance in the flooding issues that plague this part of Kihei. The County
would be wise to consider purchasing this lotor trading the owners for a more
appropriate site where they can develop truly affordable housing that would not be
saddled with these issues.
Currentlywe have genuinelyaffordablerentalprojectscoming that can help our affordable
housing needs as we work towards high qualityenvironmentallyand sociallysustainable
affordable homes. Kal’ulu0 Halele’a,a 63 - 2 to 4 bedroom unit rentalproject,isunder
construction now for the 30%-60% income level. Ikenakea - 3 Leaf isin the process of
designing and permittinga 90 unit100% affordablerentalproject in “Downtown Kihei”.Itis
centrallylocated by shops, schools and willhave sidewalks and bike paths.These are 2
examples of good “affordablehousing".
Let’s not be hasty, thereby creating more problems for the future.We can think about the
true impact of our decisions and make the ones that we willappreciate in the long run.
Please say NO to this project in this location.
Please say YES to well sited,good quality affordable homes that offerwell being and
communities that can thrive.
Thank you very much for your consideration of this important matter.
SincerelySubmitted, Randy Wagner, AIA, LEED AP
EARTHJUSTICE RECEIVED
mi JUL 13 PH > II
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF BILL 21, CD 1, FD1
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COU;
RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING
(Second and FinalReading))
OFF! ,OF THE
''CLERK
Maui County Council
July 15,2022
9:00 a.m.
Good morning. Chair Lee, Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council:
My name isDavid Lane Henkin, and Iam an attorneywith Earthjustice.’Earthjusticesubmits
thistestimonyon behalfoftheCenterforBiologicalDiversityand ConservationCouncil for
HawaiT instrongsupportofBill21,CD 1,FD 1,which would amend Maui County's lighting
ordinancetoincreaseprotectionsforHawaii's threatenedand endangered seabirds.Bill21 is
consistent with the best available science on how to minimize harm toimperiledseabirdsfrom
artificiallights.Bill21 alsoprovidesdear guidanceon how to implement thesenew lighting
requirementswith minimal burden on the community. Finally,the currentversionofBill21
addressesallreasonableconcernsraisedby members of thepublicamd the administration,
allowingample time forcomplianceand ensuringthatemergency serviceswillnot be
interrupted.For thesereasons,we urge theCouncilto adopt thismeasure as a win-win forthe
community and Hawaii's nativeseabirds.
ArtificiallightsinMaui County regularlyattractand disorientHawaiian petrels,band-rumped
storm petrels,and Newell'sshearwatersastheynavigatebetween the ocean and nesting
colonies,resultinginfallout,injury,and death.Stateand federalwildlifeagenciescharged with
helpingtopreventthesespeciesfrom goingextinctrecognizethatartificiallightattractionposes
an ongoing threattothespecies'survivaland recovery.Best practicestominimize light
attraction,and help preventextinction,includereducing shortwavelength "bluelight"in
outdoor lightingfixtures,preventingoutdoor lightingfrom shiningupward or over theocean,
and eliminatingreflectivesurfacesthatbounce lightintothesky.Bill21 would require
compliancewiththesebestpracticestogiveour nativeseabirdsthebestchance of survival.
To addressconcernsabout increasedregulatoryburdens forbusinessesand residents.Bill21,
CD 1,FD 1 providesa reasonablephase-inperiod—nearly threeand a halfyears—for the
replacementofexistingoutdoorlighting.SeeSection6 ofBill21 (ordinancedoes not takeeffect
untilJanuary1,2023);Proposed Section20.35.070.B(exempting existinglightingforthreeyears
aftereffectivedate).The billfurtherfacilitatescompliance with thenew lightingrequirements
'I am registeredas a lobbyist.
850 RICHARDS STREET, SUITE 400MID-PACIFIC HONOLULU, HI 96813
T; 808.599.2436 MPOFFICE@EARTHJUSTlCE.ORGF: 808.521.6841 WWW.EARTHJUSTICE.ORG
EarthjusticeTestimonyInSupportOf Bill21,CD 1,FD 1 (Secondand FinalReading)
■ July15,2022,'MauiCounty Council
11i w® u m m
by adoptingthedefinitionof"bluelightcontent"found inFlawai‘iCounty'slighting
oi|dinance.2,Usingthesame definitionof"bluelightcontent"providesconsistencyfor
busihesses.operatinginbothlocations,and alsoprovidesa templateforimplementationgiven
thatHawai‘iCounty'sblue-lightcontentrequirementhas been on thebooks formore than a
decade.To furtherassistthepublic,thebillprovidesthatthedirectorofpublicworks will
maintain a listof lightfixturesthatcomply with lightingrequirements.SeeProposed Section
20.35.060.F.These provisionswillensure a smooth transitiontoseabirdfriendlylightingin
Maui County and reduce any regulatoryburdens on thecommunity.^
Bill21 isa crucialstepforward forseabirdconservationin Maui County and provides a clear
path forward forbusinessesand residencestoinstallseabirdfriendlylighting.For these
reasons,we respectfullyurge the County Council topass thisbill.
Thank you forthe opportunitytoprovide thistestimonyin strongsupport ofBill21,CD 1,FD
1.1willbe availableat the Council meeting to answer any questionsyou may have.Ican alsobe
reached viaemail at dhenkin@earthjustice.orgor viatelephoneat808-599-2436.
2 Compare Proposed Section20.35.060.DwithFlawai'iCounty Code § 14-51(a)(9);seealsoHawai‘1
County Code § 14-55,Table 14-A (specifyingthatLED fixturesmust have "lessthan2% blue
lightcontent").
3 The CorporationCounsel'sproposaltodefinepermissibleoutdoor lightingintermsofthe
CorrelatedColorTemperature (CCT),measured indegreesKelvin—ratherthan thespecific
percentageofshortwavelength light—failstoincorporatethelatestscienceon how bestto
minimize harm toimperiledseabirdsfrom artificiallighting.The CCT tellsyou onlyhow
yellow or blue the overallcoloroflightemittedfrom a lightbulb appears;ittellsyou absolutely
nothingaboutwhat percentageofthatlightismade up oftheshortwavelength lightthatis
harmful toimperiledseabirds.Lightingmanufacturerscan reducetheCCT oftheirlighting
simply by adding more long wavelength light,without reducing any of theshortwavelength
lightthatattractsnativeseabirds,leadingtofalloutand associatedinjuryand death.Limitations
on harmful lightingneed tobe definedinterms of the percentageofshortwavelength light(as
the Hawai'i County lightingordinance currentlydoes and asBill21 would), not interms of
degrees Kelvin.
EARTHJUSTICE RECEIVED
Z8» JUL 15 AN »00
SUPPLEMENTAL TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF BILL 21, CD 1,FD 1
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35,MAUD<E(TOfiY|5jO I^^ £
RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOF^MJtyWlI^^CLERK
(Second and FinalReading))
Maui County Council
July 15,2022
9:00 a.m.
Good morning. Chair Lee,Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez,and members of the Council:
My name isDavid Lane Henkin, and Iam an attorneywith Earthjustice.’Earthjustice
previouslysubmitted testimony on behalfof theCenter forBiologicalDiversityand
ConservationCouncilforHawai‘iinstrongsupportof Bill21,CD 1,FD 1,which would amend
Maui County'slightingordinancetoincreaseprotectionsfor Hawaii's threatened and
endangered seabirds.We providethissupplementaltestimonyto respond toclaimsby thebill's
opponents thatexpertwildlifeagenciesdo not supportreducing theblue-lightcontentof
outdoorlightingtoprotectimperiledseabirdsinMaui County. That issimply not the case.
Earlierthisyear,theDepartment ofLand and NaturalResources,DivisionofForestryand
Wildlife(DOFAW) providedcomments on theCounty ofMaui Department of PublicWorks'
proposaltoreplacetheCounty'sexistinghigh-pressuresodium streetlights(which are amber in
colorand have low blue-lightcontent)with brightwhite LED fixtures.DOF AW raisedconcerns
abouttheharm thatsuch lightinginflictson protectedseabirds,as well as on threatened and
endangered sea turtles.
To protectimperiledwildlife,DOF AW urged theDepartment of PublicWorks touse only LED
streetlights"designedor filteredso as tohave a correlatedcolortemperature of 2200 Kelvin or
less,or a bhielightcontentoflessthan2%." (Emphasisadded). DOF AW used the same
definitionof "bluelightcontent"as found inBill21 ("theratiooftheamount ofenergy emitted
by theoutdoor lightfixturebetween 400 and 500 nm, divided by the amount ofenergy between
400 and 700 nm") and noted that"LED lightswith thesespecificationshave been found tohave
fewer impactson protectedwildlife,includingseabirdsand turtles,and are consistent,for
example,with lightingordinanceson theislandofHawai'i." (Emphasis added). A copy of
DOFAW's letter is attached.
Thank you fortheopportunitytoprovidethissupplementaltestimony instrongsupport ofBill
21, CDl, FDl.
I am registeredas a lobbyist.
MID-PACIFIC 850 RICHARDS STREET, SUITE 400 HONOLULU, HI 96813
T: 808.599.2436 F: 808.52 1.6841 MPOFFlCE@EARTHJUSTICE.ORG WWW.EARTHJUSTICE.ORG
SUZANNE D. CASE
aiARTUUOH
OOAKn or lAND AND KAIl/RAl. RtSOtmcl J
COMMKSION OK WAHS W3«mCT UAKACTMXT
D.A%TD Y. ICE
QCrt'EK.'Oft OF AH
RODEHTK.MASUDA
HMTOOVTY
M. KALEO MANUEL
DEPimr wwrrf*. wATi*
AQUATTC RESOURCES
OOATINO AND OCEAN RECREATION
BUREAU OF CONVtVANClS
CDMMSSION ON WATER RESOURCE MANAGO.ONT
CONSERVATION AND COASTAL LANDS
CONSERVaTKW and RESOURCES ENFORCEMENT
ENCINEnUNG
FORESTRY AND WILDUFE
lUSTORC PRESERVATION
KAIIOOUWE EIAND RESERVECOMhTRSDN
LAND
STATE PARKS
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES
DIVISION OF FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE
1151 PUNCHBOWL STREET. ROOM 325
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
February 24, 2022
Rowena M. Dagdag-Andaya, Director
County of Maui Department of PublicWorks
EngineeringDivision
200 South High Street
Room No. 410
Wailuku, Maui, HI 96793
Dear Ms. Dagdag-Andaya,
Subject:Requestforconsultationforproposedstreetlightreplacementatvarious
locations;DPW ProjectNo. 22-44
The Departmentof Land and NaturalResources,Divisionof Forestryand Wildlife
(DOFA^ hasreceivedthesubjectrequestforconsultation.As GeneralElectrichasceased
theproductionof high-pressuresodium(HPS)lightfixtures,theDepartmentof Public
Works (DPW) proposestoreplacethoselightswhen theyarebrokenorburnt-outwithnew
light-emittingdiode(LED) fixtures.DPW seeksconcurrencethatthereplacementofthe
HPS lightswithLED lightsisexemptfromthepreparationofanenvironmentalassessment
(EA),pursuanttoChapter343,HawaiMRevisedStatutes(HRS).Pursuantto§11-200.1-15,
Hawai‘iAdministrativeRules,exemptionsfrom thepreparationof an EA areprovidedfor
certaincategoriesofprojectsthatwillindividuallyandcumulativelyprobablyhaveminimal
orno significanteffects.
DOFAW appreciatestheintenttoreplacebrokenstreetlightsincompliancewithlighting
standardsidentifiedin §201-8.5,HRS. However, we have documentedincidencesof
protectedseabirdsbeingdownedatLED streetlightsreportedtohavebeenratedat4,000
Kelvinorless.The DivisionofAquaticResourcesisadditionallyconcernedwiththeimpacts
oflightingon thenestingsuccessofbothESA endangeredhawksbillandthreatenedgreen
sea turtleson Maui. We thereforerecommend thatthose replacementLED lightsbeing
installedunder an exemption from preparationof EA be designedorfilteredsoastohavea
correlatedcolortemperatureof 2200 Kelvin or less,ora bluelightcontentoflessthan2%.
Blue lightcontentreferstheratiooftlieamount ofenergyemittedbytheoutdoorlightfixture
between 400 and 500 nm, dividedby theamount ofenergybetween400 and 700 nm. LED
lightswiththesespecificationshavebeenfoundtohavefewerimpactsonprotectedwildlife,
includingseabirdsand turtles,and areconsistent,forexample,withlightingordinanceson
theislandof Hawai‘i.
If you have any questions,pleasecontactPaul Radley,ProtectedSpeciesHabitat
Consen^ationPlanningCoordinatorat(808)295-1123orpaul.m.radley@hawaii.gov.
Sincerely,
m
DAVID G. SMITH
Administrator
RECEIVED
ZWZJUL15 PH12:33July 15, 2022
Aloha Council Members, OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Iam writinginregardsto the proposed Hale WaipuilaniWorkforce Affordable
housing proposed for 16 East Waipuilani Rd. in Kihei.
I have lived at 1087 S Kihei Rd. since 1995. Our home isone of five,(approximate)
quarter acre lotsmaking up the Sunset EstatesSubdivisionwhich runs along
South KiheiRd. bordered on the South by Kauha'a St.and on the North by East
Waipuilani Rd. Three of these fivelotshave a main house and one cottage and the
remaining two have only one dwelling.The proposed development isslottedfor
the one-and-a-half-acrepropertylocatedat 16 E.WaipuilaniRd.,which isdirectly
behind thesefivelots,one ofwhich isoursand isproposed to add 28 unitson the
same amount of land as ourfive homes!!!
There isa plethoraof reasonswhy thisproposed development isa horrendous
plan for thislocation.A few of the reasons include that the development is
locatedina wetland area,a Tsunami evacuation zone, a flood zone, iszoned R-3,
which means thisarea islimitedto dwellingsnormallyassociated with residential
neighborhoods and would add to the alreadycongested automobile and
pedestrian trafficin thisarea. We have knocked on doors, collectingmore than
200 signaturesof our neighbors inthisarea and NO ONE we have spoken with
wants or can justifythisdevelopment proposed for our neighborhood.
Over the years we have endured flooding,due to lackof drainage and poor
development and car accidentsdue to hightrafficand no trafficlights.There have
even been pedestrian injuriesand fatalitiesdue to the fact that there are no
sidewalks,no bike paths or lightingon WaipuilaniRd. The intersectionof
Waipuilani Rd. and S KiheiRd isa major cross road which leads to a high traffic
neighborhood and publicpark.
This area forthe proposed 28 unitsisinfacta wet land area. When itrainsthis
area soaks up most of the water however during heavy rainswhat cannot be
absorbed intothiswet land spillsover and out intoour yards and streets.Ail four
of our properties,adjacentto thisproposed location,experience flooding during
1
Eheavy rainswhich has not been solvedto thisday. Itiscompletely irresponsibleto
develop thisparcelwithout solvingthe current issuesand infrastructure.
Pertainingto safety,there are NO sidewalks along S. KiheiRd.,E.Waipuilani or on
the North side of Kauha'a St.Along E.Waipuilani Rd. cars are parked on both
sides of the streetleavingroom for only a singlecar to drive down the street.
Driverand pedestrianvisibilityare extremely poor and to add 28 more families
and theirvehiclesto thisneighborhood on only an acre and a halfof land willonly
exasperate and endanger residents.During normal day to day livingthiswillbe
disastrous.Imagine what itwillbe likeinan emergency! (i.e.,fire.Tsunami
evacuation,major hurricaneetc.)
Jw'
We are requestingthisdevelopment gets a thumbs down and no exemptions be
allowed forthisproject.Ideallythisarea should be kept open space.
With proper planningthiscould be a win-win situationforthe developer and
established residents of Maui county.
Mahalo,
Mary Jo Padilla
County Clerk
ReginaPadilla<reginalp@live.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:35AM
County Clerk
AppositionforWaipuilaniHaleAffordableHousin0H2'qflfl5a|®r13J^E|2^/g^iianiRoad in Kihei.(AH-17)
From:
Sent: RECEIVEDTo:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don'toftenget emailfrom reginalp@live.com.Learnv^hvthisisimportant
Aloha,
IDO NOT CONSENT to the Waipuilani Hale
Affordable Housing proposal for 16 E.
Waipuilani Road in Kihei.(AH-17)
My name isRegina Padillaof Kihei,living
at 1087 S KiheiRd. most of my life.
Firstly,Iam for affordablehousing that is
ACTUALLY AFFORDABLE for the LOCAL hard
working livingmen & women of Kihei.This
projectdoes not solve housing problems for
ocals since 50% or more could be sold to new
mainlanders.
IDO NOT CONSENT to poor planning by
developers whose primary volitionisfinancia
gain, regardless of future problems, foreseen
and/or unforeseen,thatwillinevitablyarise
from poor planning.
ThisWersizeSdevelopmentispoorlyplacedin
a floodplai'h/zone.Do the developersand our
beloved publicservantscare about building
Tomes that are safe? Imyself have watched
south KiheiRoad and E.Waipuliani Road
completely flooded by lightstorms causing
trafficissuesand drainage issues.The height o '
the proposed buildingsalso makes them
intrusiveto the privacyof surrounding homes
and theiryard spaces.
This high-densityprojectwould increasetraffic
and drainage issuesfor our localcommunity
and South Maui. Also, itwould restrictaccess
foremergency response vehicles,which would
endanger our community.
Beloved publicservants,you may not
proceed with thisproject.You may reconsider
the development of something lessintrusive
and holisticallyintelligent,such as a workout
park,dog park or community garden [NO BIG
BUILDINGS.]
Mahalo for your time,
Regina Padilla
received
20??JULI AHl|:03
July 14, 2022
Don Gerry
My testimony not wanting constructionof Affordable housing at:
16 East Waipuilani Road
Kihei
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Ifind ithard to believethat the Hale Piilaniprojectisstillbeing considered ina floodzone that
isso activein Kihei.Over and over again we show the damage to thisarea when floods come
down the hilland hitthe existingfamilies.Affordablehousing isimportant but again have it
done in an area that isnot so vulnerable to problems.
With so many affordableprojectson the books in the future we need to startaiming inthe
areas more Mauka. Iam not disapprovingthisor any other projectsforAffordable.Just
reconsider another place.Ithas been estimated that 133 millionisneeded to fixthe drainage
problems which the County does not have so why add to the problems by putting a projector
any other projectinthe middle of flood areas.
This isa projectthat does not fitina single-familydwelling area and should be relocated.Mark
my words, once the unitsare filledeven with 2 cars per stallon property,the streetwillbe
linedwith carsonce they move in.
1had always thought the County was seekingan Open Space preservationplan and the goal of
the County designatingand purchasing land for "green drainage infrastructure.This isthe idea
that the SMWP and KDMP Iheard has had.
Leave the land open. Builda retentionthere and on other lotsinthe area, (1144 South Kihei
Road 7-acreparcel)to be a positiveimpact and not a negative ne to thisarea.
Thank you,
Don Gerry
1114 South Kihei Road
Kihei,Hawaii, 96753
(808) 298 5679
MICHAEL P.VICTORINO
Mayor
HELENE KAU
Director
SHAYNE R. AGAWA, P.E.
Deputy Director
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAI‘1 96793
http://www.mauicounty.gov/water
July 18,2022
TO: Dear Honorable Council Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Femandez, and the members of the
Maui County Council:
FROM: Dept, of Water Supply,Deputy DirectorShayne R. Agawa
SUBJECT: Dept,of Water Supply WrittenTestimony on Reso 22-171,Reso 22-119, and County
Communication 22-167. Testimony givenverballyby DWS Deputy Director,Shayne
R. Agawa, attheJuly15,2022 CouncilMeeting.
DWS Testimony on Reso 22-171. Reso 22-119. & County Communication 22-167
RESO. 22-171
DWS stronglysupportsthisresolution,which urgesthemayor toauthorizea comprehensivefeasibility
studyfortheEMI watersystem inEastMaui. A feasibilitystudy willaddressmany of the concerns
thatDWS has,and inmy opinion,concernswhich allof you (councilmembers) and thegeneralpublic
shouldhave beforemaking a huge decisionintheformationof regionalcommunity boards and the
Maui Nui Community Water Systems. How can a decisionof thismagnitude be made withouthaving
accuratecostsof acquiring,operatingand maintainingtheseregionalwater systems and without
knowing an accuratenumber of theftiturerevenuegeneratedby theseregionalwater systems?
Example: When you purchasea new car,do you justsay‘T willbuy thatcartherebecause I love it.”
Or do most ofus ask what thepurchasepricewillbe,what thecostof maintenance willbe, does that
carhave everythingyou need as is,orwillyou need to purchaseaccessoriesor upgrades inthefuture
tomeet your needs? Another thingmost of us thinkabout once we know thetotalcostof purchasing
thisnew carisam Iabletomake themonthlypaymentswith the amount 1 make atmy job (your
revenue).Ibelieveallof us would not signon thedottedlinetopurchasethatcaruntilwe know the
answers tothosequestions.
DWS feelsthatthisresolutionisan importantfirststepinconsideringthe County’s bestinteraction
withtheEastMaui watersystem,whichever agency takesthe lead in the statewater leaseprocess. We
stillneed importantquestionsanswered beforewe make huge decisionson water management issue
and we believethisresolutionwillgetus thoseanswers.
‘(ByWaterJiffTilingsTinTLife
RESO. 22-119 &CC 22-167
Overall DWS Comments:
DWS requeststhatmore claritybe givenwhen theterms""watercollectionand deliveiy
systems""arc used, thatthose terms arc not to be confusedwithwatercollectionand delivery
systemsunderthejurisdictionof DWS. We requestthatthe section8-11.2 be clarifiedto
acknowledgeourdepartment’songoingabilitytoacquireand manage water sources.
- DWS regularlydevelopsnew sourcesand alsoacceptssources such as privatewells or other
infrastructure,ifitisin the best interestof the departmentand our customers,and we want to
be suretheDWS continuestohave theabilitytodo so.
2"*^Whereas.ResoPg.1.
Any increasetothecostof water forlocalfarmersand ranchersjeopardizestheeffortsto
promote localfood securityforMaui
4'^Whereas.Reso Pg.1.
The creationof an additionallayerof bureaucracy reducesefficiencyand increasescosts.
5“^Whereas.Reso Pg.1
Wholesale regionalwater authoritysystems generallyown or operateallmajor watersupply
faeiliticsincludingreservoirs,treatmentplants,and transmissionlines.Relatedcostsof
servicesarebilledtomunicipalitiesthatown and operatetransmissionfacilitiesand linesin
serviceareas,issueend user billings,and provide serviceconnectionsto end usercustomers.
8“^Whereas.Reso Pg.2
The DWS isan existinggovernment agency with theabilitytoprovidecleanand safedrinking
water ataffordablerateswhile managing revenue,operatingexpenses,capitalimprovements,
and debt service.Maui Nui Community Water Systems would relyupon ratescharged to
DWS. The administrativeoverhead and operationalcostsof rumiingtheregionalwater
systems would be passed on toDWS inthe fonn of high wholesalewater rates;DWS
customerswould ultimatelyabsorb theserateincreases.
2 Whereas. Reso Pg. 3
DWS has a long-standingpracticeof supportingagriculture.Water costsforlocalfarmersand
rancherscontinueto be subsidizedby generaluse customers. The FY22 Water Rate Study,
preparedby Harris& Associates,indicatesthatagriculturalcustomerspay about 30% of the
totalcostsrequiredtoprovidethewater they use.
Maui Nui Water Systems’ ""additionalrevenue'"cannottranslatetoreduced agriculturalwater
ratesas system costswould be funded by increasedwholesaleratestoDWS. DWS would then
be requiredtopass on thisadditionalcoststoallcustomers.
‘(By‘WaterliftingsTincfLife
The followingarecomments made directlytotheamended Chapter19 Maui Nui Community Water
Systems:
Section 8-19.1Organization.
- Hiring staffwith appropriatelicensesnecessarytomanage watercollectionand delivery
systemsposessignificantstaffingchallengesdue toa limitedselectionofqualifiedapplicants.
For example,engineersand personnelwithwatersystemexperienceareinshortsupply.
Having agencieswith similardutieswillmean thattherewillbe competitionforthelimited
number of qualifiedcandidatesto fillvacancies.
Providingstaffwith competitivesalaries,benefitpackages,training,and necessaryequipment
along with theacquisition,operation,and maintenance forwater collectionand delivery
systems willbe costly.
Section8-19.3RegionalCommunity Board Powers,Duties,and Functions.
Item 5.
Appropriationswould have toinitiallycome from thegeneralfund. Will the costsforthe
regionaloperationsand capitalimprovements be fundedby an increaseinrealpropertytaxes?
Does thisincludethecoststoacquirewatercollectionand distributionsystems as well? DWS
isan enteiprisefund and it’srevenue isreservedforDWS expenses.
Item 7.
With regardsto''waterrates":We assume thatDWS willbe a customer affectedby these
water rates. DWS is concerned about what those rates willbe consideringthatwe currently
pay EMI SO.06/1000gal. How much willthewater ratesneed tobe inordertohelp fund the
RegionalCommunity Board’soperatingbudget? Any increasein ratesto what DWS is
currentlypayingwillultimatelybe passedon toDWS customers.
Section8-19.4RegionalAdministrators.
2"^^Sentence"watersystemsunderthecontrolofthewater systems."
DWS isstillconfusedaboutthejurisdictionof theMaui Nui community water systems,
referredtoasthe"watersystems"inSection8-19.1. Under Section8-19.1"water systems"
sounds likeit’sjurisdictionoverseesonly a regionalwater system {i.e.East Maui) and Under
Section8-19.2,Councilwillestablishadditionalregionalwater systems by ordinance. Itisstill
uncleariftherewillbe a Maui Nui community water system with it’sown administratorand
staffthathasjurisdictionover theremaining districtswhere Regional Community Boards have
not yet been establishedby Council. This ishow DWS readsthe2"*^sentenceinSection8-
19.4.
Ifyou have any questions,pleasecontactDeputy DirectorShaync Agawa at(808) 270-7834 or at
Shayne.agawa@co.maui.hi.us.
‘(By‘Water TineCLife
REChtV^
!II7?JUL n AH l|:03
r-r
14 July 2022Sterling Higa
sterling^dhawaiisfuture.org
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Dear Councilmembers,
My name isSterlingHiga, and 1livein Paia with my wife and three
children.
Iserve as executive director of Housing Hawaii’s Future, a movement
led by young localswho willcreate opportunitiesfor Hawaii's Gen Z and
Millennialsby ending the workforce housing shortage. We focus on the
housing needs of the “gap” group that earn 80%-140% AMI, the localswho are
affected by thismeasure.
Iwrite with a simple request: PLEASE. SLOW. DOWN.
Please defer thisbill,and allow for a more robust debate that involves
allstakeholders,especiallythe students and young locals who willinheritthe
decision thatyou’re making.
The next generation of Maui - the people most impacted by this
measure - are busy working, startingtheircareers and providing fortheir
families.They don’t have time to track measures likethis or to show up for
hearings scheduled for9am on a Friday morning.
Low sales prices would be a great boon to young localswho are
starting their careers and families,but there has been no explanation of how
thismeasure willlead to lower prices.
In the absence of a robust subsidy program, Bill107 willlead to a
decrease in supply.This would have a catastrophicimpact on the young
people of Maui who are already strugglingto achieve home ownership.
For sale housing at 80% AMI isoften the firstrung on the ladder of
home ownership. Ifyou reduce the supply of housing at that level,you confine
people to be perpetual renters,and you increase the likelihoodthat localswill
leave for California,Texas, and Nevada, where housing is more affordable.
Please defer thisbilland reconsider itafteryou’ve made a plan to
engage the community. Iwould be happy to assistin planning effortsto
engage students and young locals,and you can reach me at
sterlinQ'fgjhawaiisfuture.orgifyou have any questions.
Thanks,
July 15,2022
OPPOSE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FOR 16 E WAIPUILANI
ST IN KIHEI
This letterisin oppositionto theproposed Workforce Affordable
housing development slatedfor 16 E Wiapuilani in Kihei.
The government has a responsibilityof keepingthecitizenssafewith a
stableeconomy.
It’ssimple,beingcaughtwithoutan escaperoutethatworks isNOT
safe.
A landswap willkeep theeconomy on trackby providingwork to the
constructionindustryas well as work forceaccommodations to do the
work.
Developerscomplain a landswap willtaketolong,how long would it
takefora familytogetoverlosinga familymember due to not taking
thetimetoputtheinfrastructureinplacethatwillprovide a saferoute
eitherwalking to theWiapuilanipark acrossSouth Kihei road,or to
Safeway atPiilaniShopping Center.We need a saferouteleadingup
country thatisan escape routeto getout of harms way insteadof a bottle
neck typeroutethata reasonableperson would calla trap,which iswhat
we have now. This road from Kihei toup countryhas been in the general
plan foryears.
There areno sidewalksinthisarea,thedrainageproblemsremain
unsolved,thisprojectishigh densityand does notbelong in this
neighborhood.
When does thebad decision-makingstop. oo
O-n
hS^ m
73
rnc=
Pleasedo not approvethisproject. C)
rn
oo
Larry Padilla mm H
7s m
aw
\jj
Count^Clerk RCOCiVLD
LloydJohnson <pinklloyd@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:43AM
County Clerk
22-61 Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent: im JUL AH 9: 10
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom pinklloyd@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
My name isLloyd Johnson. My propeilyisadjacenttothe proposed
development site.I'm opposed totheproject.You may say thatwe arejustthe
usualNIMBYs, not inmy back yard,but there'smore to itthan that.Because my
propertyisadjacentto thepropertyinquestion,Iknow what'swrong with this
proposal.
I acknowledge theneed forworkforcehousing,butthisisthe wrong placefor
it.This siteissubjecttofrequentflooding.Predictably,thepropertyowners there
willhave totrudgethroughankledeep waterfrom home to carforseveraldays
followingseasonalheavy rains.These houses willnot be a bargain. There willbe a
lotofbuyers'remorse.Are we toletthebuyer beware?
Apparently the developerhas asked thatfloodinsurancebe waived. Can he
be any more obvious? The buyersoftheseunitswillbe additional
victims.Apparentlyhe has been offeredan alternatesite,and has declined.
The empty lotinquestionisa necessaryfloodcontrol.Anyone who has ever
drivenon South KiheiRoad aftera heavy rainknows thatthe road isflooded for
severaldays after.That floodwater creepsup my driveway then findslow ground
to followon thesouthsideof my house,intomy back yard,then intothatempty
lot.Itthentakesseveraldaystoabsorbintotheground there.
The county has neglecteddrainageinthisarea.Old drainsareclogged and
covered. You may promise to do bettermaintenance,but you can'tkeep that
promise. Eventuallyyou willleaveofficeand your replacements willnot feel
bound by your promises. Unless you expectwaterto flow uphill,you must reject
thisproject.
One of thetwo accessroads forthisprojectisalreadytoo narrow for cuixent
traffic.Kauhaa has parkingon both sidesand two way traffic.I avoid thisstreet
because itisn'twide enough fortwo way traffic.Ifthere'sa car coming ft'omthe
oppositedirection,one carhas topullover and yield.And thisprojectproposes
more traffic on that street.
Count^£lerk
Andrew Kayes<andrewvkayesmdllc@gmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 9:41 PM
County Clerk
Re:Outside LightingBill- Opposition or at leastconsiderexemptinglow powered solar
lights
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don’toftenget emailfrom andrewvkayesmdllc@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Subject typo corrected.
On Wed, Jul13, 2022 at 9:38 PM Andrew Kayes <andrewvkavesmdllc@ gmail.com> wrote:
Iwould liketo write inoppositionto the outsidelightingbill.
My home isdark and the few outsidelightsIhave aresolargenerated with batteriesand help keep me and my family
feelingsafe.They use no electricity.
At a minimum Iwould liketo suggest exemption forsolarbatterypowered path and safetylightsthat are 150 lumens
or less,and/or or 25 watts or less.
These reallyonlyhelpwithsafetyand are not brightenough to be seen from outsidemy property.Ican'timagine they
would affectany seabirds.
Thank you foryour consideration.
O-n
C -nSincerely,
Andrew Kayes, M.D. m
orn●< moo--n zez
m —< mAndrew V. Kayes, M.D. Op
a
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT:The materialsinthise-mailare privateand may contain Protected Health Information.Ifyouarenotthe'ir^ended
recipientbe advised thatany unauthorized use,disclosure,copying,distributionor the takingof any actioninrelianceon the contents of this
information isinviolationof State and Federal law. Ifyou have receivedthisemail inerror,pleaseimmediately notifythe sender viareplye-mail,
or telephoneat808-873-9551,and destroyallelectronicand paper copieswithout reading,forwarding or savingthem. Thank you, we appreciate
your cooperation.
O
Andrew V. Kayes, M.D.
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT:The materialsinthise-mailare privateand may contain Protected Health Information.Ifyou are not the intended recipient
be advisedthatany unauthorizeduse,disclosure,copying,distributionor the takingof any actioninrelianceon the contents of thisinformation is
inviolationofStateand Federallaw.Ifyou have received thisemail inerror,please immediately notifythe sender via replye-mail,or telephone at
808-873-9551,and destroyallelectronicand paper copieswithout reading,forwarding or savingthem. Thank you, we appreciate your cooperation.
1
Count^^lerk
Shay Chan Hodges <shay.chanhodges@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 8:05 AM
County Clerk
NO. 22-119,CD1.FD1, NO.22-167
Cost Breakdown-4.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom shay.chanhodges@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha:
Please find attached a cost breakdown that Iwill be referringto in oraltestimony today.
Mahalo!
Shay Chan Hodges
Responsible Markets
Maui ESG Project
mauiesgDroiect.org
808.250.6160
1
, - PER MAHI PONG’S 2021 EIS,TOTAL OPERATIONAL
COSTS FOR THE ENTIRE EMI SYSTEM:
iMillioi^
r 1 r ^r 1
►jjmfessional
servicesmaintenance taxes
L A L JL J
T
^^lease^lr 'Ilabor
and
fringe
benefits ►materials
L J
;
(L
m:
.. \:h●■ -r ●;
--B1NR CURRENTLY ALLOWS EMI TO DIVERT 45 MOD, INCLUDING
UP TO 8 MGD FOR UPCOUNTRY MAUI DOMESTIC & AG USE
Total Water Use Allowed: 45 MGD
8 MGD,
Maui
County
DWS* ^
L37MillionGallonsPer.Day,Mahi Pono k
~A
nhis amount varies:
In 2020, DWS paid
for the delivery of
only 6.3 MGD
■ Mahi Pono. DWS Use
OPERAT ONAL COSTS BROKEN DOWN BY % OF USE
Per Mahi Pono, Total Annual Operational
Costs: $2.2 Million
DWS: X
Under
$400,000
Annuall>o
Mahi Pono for Central
Maut Agriculture:Just
over $1.8 Million
Annually
■ DWS Use Mahi Pono Use
)
i
MAUI COUNTY’S
CHEAP WATER
FROM A&B/EMI
WAS CONNECTED
TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF
LAND & NATURAL
RESOURCES LOW
LEASE RATES FOR
A&B/EMI
'I
DWS currentlypays .06 centsper 1,000 gallonsforup to 8
MillionGallons per day for deliveryof EMI water (up to
$175,200 annually)k 	
fr
!
r
Thiscontracted rate between Maui County and EMI has been in
effectsince1973 (almost50 years)
{
L
I
I In1976, BLNR chargedA&B/EMI about $160,000 a yearfor
permitson the fourleaseareas.Intoday’sdollars,thatwould be
over $700,000.
The most recent lease rates set by BLNR for Mahi
Pono total$238,362, 70% LESS than what A&B
paid 45 years ago.
I
'II
I
1
t
,7 TT ● ●
I-
e:> 'Li>-
-iV- "-J'-:ir●1 I !'A
^ DLNR ISCURRENTLY DEVELOPING A NEW WATER APPRAISAL PROCESS w'
FOR PRIVATE ENTITIES WITH CONSIDERATION OF WATER AS A PUBLIC
TRUST IN ADVANCE OF MAHI PONO’S PLANNED BID ON THE LEASES.
!tisvery likelythat even
before attempting to
appraise the water’s value,
DLNR willat leasttriplethe
current lease rate for
EMI/Mahi Pono to bringitin
linewith today’s dollars.
The EMI/Mahi Pono
increased lease rates will
result in increased costs to
the Department of Water
Supply, which could result
in higher costs for rate
payers.
The Market: The County pays
.28 per 1,000 gallonsto
Maui Land & Pine,.50 per
1,000 gallonsto Wailuku
Water Company.
DLNR HAS STATED THAT A COUNTY ENTITY INTERESTED IN THE LEASES
WOULD BE EXEMPT FROM THE BIDDING PROCESS AND WOULD NOT
BE CHARGED FOR THE WATER LEASES.
/
- POTENTIAL REVENUES FROM THE EMI SYSTEM, BASED
ON CURRENT ALLOV/ABLE 45 MOD
rrr
The County currently
charges $1.00 per 1,000
gallons for Non-Potable
AgriculturalWater
Water Authority can
deliver 37 Million Gallons
Per Day to Mahi Pono for
agriculture
Due to the Water Authority’s
use of the EMI conveyance
system, a lower wholesale rate
might be negotiated.
L
. M
{
'EPENDUMG on how wholesale rates are negotiated
INCLUDING HOW A RATE STRUCTURE BALANCES
SUBSIDIZING LOCAL FARMERS OR MAHI PONO, REVENUES
MAY RANGE FROM:
w
Gross Annual Revenues for
37 MillionGallons Per Day
@ $1.00per 1/000 gallons
==$13/505,000
Gross Annual Revenues for
37 MillionGallons Per Day
@ $.50 per 1,000 gallons
■ =$6,752,500
j.r
\;A**]
POTENTIAL NET REVENUE FOR EAST MAUI WATER AUTHORITY
w
● LOW RANGE REVENUE FROM MAHI PONO (@.50 PER 1,000 GALLONS) = $6,752,500
EXPENSES:
= $1,809,000
= $224,800
● OPERATING COST FOR 37 MGD
● SUBSIDY TO DWS TO MAINTAIN HISTORIC RATE FOR 8 MGD
= $4.71 8.700LOW RANGE NET REVENUE
= $11.471.200HIGH RANGE NET REVENUE ($1.00PER 1,000 GALLONS, ADD $6,752,500)
\J j ●It
i A
POTENTIAL ADDITIONAL COSTS
oONE-TIME COSTS:
● ENGINEERING STUDIES TO SUPPORT FEDERAL FINANCING & GRANTS: $300,000
$300,000
$600,000
● FINANCIAL AND INVESTMENT CONSULTANTS:
● SUBTOTAL:
ANNUAL:
$2,000,000
$800,000
$2,800,000
$3.4 million;
● ADDITIONAL WATERSHED RESTORATION FUNDING:
● ADDITIONAL SUPPORT STAFF:
● SUBTOTAL:
● TOTAL ADDITIONAL EXPENSES :
ADJUSTED LOW RANGE NET REVENUES: $1,318,700
:$8,071,200ADJUSTED HIGH RANGE NET
o
K
RECEIVED
Count^Oerk m?7 nil lU PHI?:Sn
Shekinah Perry<shekinahperry808@gmai!.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:45PM
County Clerk
The haleWaipu'ilaniHousing Development testimony
From:
Sent: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom shekinahperry808@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
!hereby testifythatIoppose the proposed Hale Waipu'ilaniHousing Development.
Thisproposed plan isa safetyhazard due to itslocation,and italsowillnot help Maui's need for housing for
localresidents(as50% or more ofthe housing could be purchased by outsiders).
Mahalo,
Shekinah Cantere
1
Count^^lerk
David Bruce <hawaiihomebuyers@gnnail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:33AM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipuiiani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom hawaiihomebuyers(5)gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuiiani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers. Mahalo!
David Bruce
(8o8) 938-7227
havvaiiliomehiivers@gmaiI»com
Instagram - @brucepropcrties
Linkeded - DavidBruce rw
OoOt! 7]CTl m
5^Tm O
< xjy m
oo 3"n
mm H
33X cUJ
»o
1
Jordan Molina <Jordan.K.Molina@co.maui.hi.us>
Friday,July15,2022 12:16 PM
County Clerk
StreetlightConversionDEA. Bill21,CD1, FD1 (2022)
MT#9746-Bill21,CDI-Lee, Alice.pdf
RECEIVEDFrom:
Sent:
To:
mi JUL 15 PH 12=35Subject:
Attachments:
OFFICE OF THG
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
Provided foryour reference as itrelatesto your review of Bill21, CDl, FDl (2022) isa linkto the draftenvironmental
assessment prepared by the Department of PublicWorks for itsstreetlightconversion project.
httPs://Drotect2.fireeve.com/v1/url?k=31323334-50bba2bf-31360632 -4544474f5631-49dbda52c7c826af&q=1&e=927cddd3-0fda-
47ff-9c1a-69bcfefd71b0&u=https%3A%2F%2Fplanninasolutions.sharefi le.com%2Fd-s7f779a14ddfb4d939bcc4debb1fe1054
Also attachedismy testimonyfrom firstreading.These concerns stillpersistunder the latestversion of the bill.
Mahalo,
Jordan
Beginforwarded message:
From: Jordan Molina <jordan.k.molina@co.maui.hi.us>
Date: June 30, 2022 at 11:44:05 AM HST
To: County Clerk<County.C!erk(Sco.maui.hi.us>
Subject:Testimony re:Committee Report 22-47,Bill21, CDl (2022)
Aloha County Clerkand Members of the Maui County Council,
Pleasesee the attachedtestimonyfrom the Department of PublicWorks as itrelatesto Committee
Report 22-47 and Bill21, CDl (2022) regardingthe proposed amendments to the Outdoor Lighting
Ordinance being heard at tomorrow's Councilmeeting.
Mahalo.
Jordan Molina
Director of Public Works
County of Maui
200 S. High Street,Room 434
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7845
1
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
NJORDAN MOLINA
Director
GARY L. 1.AMBROSE
Deputy Director
WADE SHIMABUKURO, P.E.
Development ServicesAdministration
COUNTY OF MAUI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET, ROOM 434
WAILUKU, MAUI. HAWAII 96793
RODRIGO “CHICO" RABARA, P.E.
EngineeringDivision
JOHN R. SMITH, P.E.
Highways Division
Telephone; (808) 270-7845
Fax: (808)270-7955
June 29, 2022
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
Mayor Date
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Council Chair, and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Dear Council Chair Lee and Members:
SUBJECT: BILL 21, GDI (2022)RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-47
The Department of PublicWorks opposes the proposed billinitscurrentform because ofthe
directand immediate impacts to the publicthat willresult.The Department requeststhe billbe
recommitted for further discussion.
In additionto the concerns raised by the Department of the CorporationCounsel in their
correspondencetotheMaui County CouncildatedJune 17,2022,theDepartmentisconcernedabout
thefollowingunintendedconsequences thatwillresultfromthepassage oftheproposedbill.
Housing projectsmust be stopped immediatelyupon enactment ofthisordinance
to verifycompliance oftheirlightingfixtures.
The bill’sthree-yearexemptiononlyappliesto“fixturesinstalledpriortotheenactmentof
the ordinance”.Any new housing projectthathas not yetinstalledtheiroutdoorlights
must be stoppedupon enactmentofthisordinanceuntilcompliancecanbe verified.New
permitsforhousingprojectscannotbe issueduntilcompliancecan be verified.
1.
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
For Transmittal to:
Honorable AliceL. Lee. Council Chair and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
June 29.2022
Page 2
Itwilltake time forthe Department to establishthe trainingand expertisenecessary to
determine whether a lightingfixtureiscompliant,particularlyas itrelatesto measuring
bluelightcontentaccordingto thebill'sdefinition.Unlessprojectsoptfortheremovalof
alloutdoorlightsassociatedwiththeirprojects,theprojectsmust be stoppedorbe subject
to enforcement action for non-compliance untilsuch time when the Department is
preparedto make compliance determinations.
The Department recommends the proposed billbe amended to exempt residential
propertiesfrom complying with the new lightingstandards,which Isconsistentwiththe
Hawaii County ordinance.
Current energy efficiencyprojects involving lightingmust be abandoned and the
associated material costs and energy savings will be immediately lost.
The County spent $3.8 millionto purchase 4,800 brand-new streetlightfixturesas partof
itsStreetlightConversion Project(the“Project”).None ofthese fixturescomply withthe
filteredor blue lightcontent requirements of the proposed bill.For the Department to
continue the project,another 4,800 streetlightfixturesmust be purchased at a cost that
willbe significantlyhigherthan the initial$3.8 millionalreadyspent.
2.
Additionally,the conversionfrom high-pressuresodium to lightemittingdiode (LED) light
fixtureisestimated to save the County $660,000 per year inelectricitycosts. Completion
ofthe Projecthas alreadybeen delayed by threeyears resultinginlostenergysavingsof
approximately$2 million.The Projectwillneed to be entirelyrestartedto ensure
compliancewiththe proposed bill.Thiswillcause an additionalthreeyears ofdelaysand
resultinthe loss of an additional$2 millioninelectricitysavings.
The Department recommends the proposed billbe amended to allowfora limited
exemption forstreetlightsto allowthe County’scurrentstreetlightconversionprojectto
proceed and requirethatsubsequent streetlightreplacementsto comply withthe new
lightingstandards.
Emergency operationsand CIP projectswillbe hindered.
Events and activitiesconducted at nightrequirethe use oftemporary lighting.Unlikethe
Hawaii County ordinance,the proposed billdoes not providean exemptionforsuch
temporarylightingand thereare no readilyavailablealternativesthatwould complywith
the proposedbill’srequirements.Any currentor proposednightactivitieswouldneed to
be suspended untilcompliancecan be determined.
Impacted activitiesincludeemergency operationsand capitalimprovementprojects.
Without temporary lighting,nightwork is no ionger a viabletoolto managingtraffic
impactsinsituationswhere concurrentroadwayprojectsand post-disastercleanupsare
occurringinthe same vicinity.
The Departmentrecommends the proposedbillbe amended toallowforan exemption
fortemporary lighting.
3.
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
For Transmittal to;
Honorable AliceL. Lee, Council Chair and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
June 29, 2022
Page 3
The requirement for wall surfaces to be “non-reflective”is unenforceableand
contraryto the purpose and intentof the County’s Energy Code.
The proposed billrequiresany wallsurfacehitby lighttobe “non-reflective”,butdoes not
definewhat thismeans. The billattempts to provideexamples of non-reflectivesurfaces,
such as the use ofmatte paint.However, by definition,matte paintdoes notcomply with
the requirementof being non-reflective.The Merriam-Webster dictionarydefines“non-
reflective”to mean not capable of reflectinglight.The leastreflectivepaintdeveloped to
date,named SingularityBlack,stillreflects1.5% of lightthathitsthe surface. Typical
matte blackpaintreflectsabout 20% oflightthathitsthe surface.No surfacecan be non-
reflectiveexcept inthe absence of light.
4.
Additionally,requiringbuildingsurfacestobe blackordarkcolorsunderminesthebenefits
that the County’s Energy Code seeks to achieve. A consequence of the reduced
reflectivityprovided by dark colorsisan increase in heat absorption. Buildingcooling
systems have to work harder and expend more energy to counteractthe additionalheat
loads absorbed by the dark-coloredsurfaces. The added heat thatdark surfaceswill
absorb reduces the energy efficiencyofthe building.
The Department recommends the proposed billbe amended to deletethe requirement
for non-reflective surfaces.
The requirement for “filtered**LEDs isunenforceable.
The proposed billrequiresoutdoor lightfixturesto be a “filteredLED". A lightfilterisan
accessorydeviceand isnot an integralpartofa lightfixture.The proposed billwould
requirelightfixturestobe filteredeven ifthe lightfixturealonecomplieswiththebluelight
contentrequirement.Residentsand businesswould notbe abletofindcompliantlighting
because filtersare not a commonly availableaccessory foroutdoor lighting.
The Department recommends the proposed billbe amended to deletethe requirement
for“filtered”lightfixtures.
No evidence supports less blue lightwillresultinlessseabirdfallout.
The Departmentrecognizesthatartificialhuman activitieshave the potentialto impact
naturalprocesses inthe environment. However, the Departmentisnot aware of any
evidence showing thatreducingthe blue lightcontentofoutdoorlightingresultsinany
measurable reduction to seabird fallout.Therefore, itisunclear whether the purported
benefitsoftheproposed billwilloutweighitsunintendedconsequences.
The StateDepartment of Land and NaturalResources,who istheState'sauthorityon
wildlifemanagement and seabirdfallout,maintainsa SeabirdFalloutSeason webpage
fhttps://dlnr.hawaii.qov/wi!diife/seabird-fallout-season/)that providesinformationabout
seabird-friendlylighting.The strategiespresentedon thewebpage forreducinglight
5.
6.
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
For Transmittal to:
Honorable AliceL. Lee. Council Chair and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
June 29. 2022
Page 4
attractionfocuseson controllingthe directionand intensityoflight.Nowhere on thepage
does itrecommend prohibitingblue light.
In May 2022, Hawaii PacificUniversityand the U.S. Fishand WildlifeServicepublished
a studyconductedon Oahu thatevaluatedtheimpactson wedge-tailedshearwaterfallout
caused by convertingstreetlightsfrom high-pressuresodium toLED fixtures,itwas found
that the conversion to LED fixtures had no observable impact on fledglingfallout.
The Department recommends the proposed billbe amended to deletethe requirement
relatingto blue lightcontent so thatthe County’s effortscan be betterdirectedat
implementingthe bill'smore meaningful mitigationsrelatingto controllingthe direction
and intensityofoutdoor lightinstallations.
Thank you foryour considerationof thismatter. You may contactme at 270-7845 withany
questions.
Sincerely,
JORDAN MOLINA
Director of Public Works
JM:jso
s:\jordan\transmittals\alee_bilt21 cd1 2022 re outdoor lightingcomm report22-47 06.29.22
Good morning Honorable Chair Lee and Fellow Council Members:
My name isRandy Yamanuha, retiredprincipalof Maui High School and
former presidentof both the Maui InterscholasticLeague (MIL) and
Hawaii High School AthleticAssociation(HHSAA). 1am here today
testifyingon BillNo. 21. Although the billhas itsmerits,Iam asking you
to reconsiderin not passingthe billat thistime untilsome of the
unintended consequences and community wide ramificationscan be
discussedwith allaffectedparties.As previoustestimoniesmentioned
the obviousfinancialimpactsinlossof revenue from decreasing gate
receiptsand investmentinnew equipment inorderto comply with the
billrequirements.OtherconsequencesthatIwant topoint out isthe
greaterriskforthe healthand safetyof our student athletes. Moving
athleticcompetitionduringtheheatoftheday placesstudents at an
increasedriskforheat relatedinjuries.Other unintended
consequencesby moving eventstothe daytimewillgreatlyimpact our
community sportsleaguesas itwilllessenavailableplayingfieldsdue to
highschoolteams and community teams competingforthe same fields
during a smaller time window. Another issueshould be considered
moving eventsto the daytime and itsimpact on the league'sabilityto
secure officials.For example, infootballmost officialshave regularday
jobsand movingtheeventstoearlierintheday willnegativelyimpact
the number of officialavailablefor sporting events. On a side note,
we've had judges and prosecutingattorneysas footballofficials,which
they wouldn't be able to officiatedaytime events due to work
schedules and they would be sorely missed by the league and fans as
they bring a sense of creditabilityto the game. With the increasing
number of schools inthe MIL, scheduling games during the week isa
necessitydue to facilityand officials'availability.
The most important unintended consequence that Iwant to speak
about coming as an educator ismoving games to daytime willimpact
our student'seducation.Athleticpracticesand games were moved to
the end ofthe schoolday to lessenthe amount studentsmiss
instructionalclasstime. Having day games and especiallyfor the MIL
which isa tri-isleleague,traveltime isa bigcomponent for teams.
Students willmiss more instructionalclass time because they willhave
to leaveschoolearlierinorderto have properwarm up time as injury
prevention priorto the sporting event commences.
Lastly,forour studentsand community theywillbe affectedsocially
and emotionallyifthere are no evening activitiesfor them as we found
out duringthe pandemic lockdown. Have we thoroughlydiscussed the
impact on our students and greater community? There are probably
many more impacts for our students that haven't been mentioned.
Inclosing,please reconsideryour decisionsand Iask you to consider all
the unintended consequences of Bill21. Thank you forthe opportunity
to speak on behalf of our students.
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
nn JUL M AH fr 08David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 7:15 AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To: I.‘
Updated testimony:Hale Waipuilanisiteshould remainas,«,raSubject:
conservation".
Update 7/14/2022:
The Hale Waipuilaniprojectshould not be approved; We should not allow new housing to be builtinthe flood
zone. This area has multipleriskfactorsand there are many betterlocationsto buildaffordablehomes.
There are 2500 Affordablehomes inthe pipeline;Maui currentlyhas 36 Affordable Housing projectsin the
works and according to Mayor Victorino(editorialreAffordable Housing Maui News 4/30/22),there are 2,500
affordablehomes inthe pipeline.
Disapprovingwillhave a negligibleimpact on AffordableHousing; Disapproving this28-unitprojectwillhave a
negligibleimpact on Maui'saffordablehousing and represents only about 1 percent of affordablehousing in
the pipeline.
A landswap dealisthe bestoption;Maui County currentlydoesn'thave the 133 milliondollarbudget to fix
drainageInfrastructuretomake Kiheisafefrom flooding.But the County does have land.The County has land
availableatthe KiheiPoliceStation,atMaui Lani,and inthe centralvalleynear Pu’unene. Any ofthese areas
are farbettersuitedforhousing,and arefreefrom the flooding,and coastal hazards of tsunami, sea levelrise,
and climatechange.
The Developer has been offered a Land Swap; The Maui County has offeredthe developer the opportunityto
discussa landswap forcounty-owned land,ina more suitablelocation.Although the developer initiallyagreed
theyare now sayingitwould taketoo longforthatto happen.
The County needs to protectKihei;Kiheicannot accommodate more traffic,or more housing infloodzones,
so we need to reduce development on the floodplain,and encourage a retreatfrom the shoreline.Urban
growth areas and new housingshouldbe locatedon higherground, and farfrom known floodzones. Only the
County has the power tomake the decisionsnecessaryto make thishappen.
The best use of 16 E WaipuilaniRoad isConservation;
This siteshould be placed intoconservation.This isone ofthe area’slastremaining open spaces. And
itis part of the localwatershed and wetland nexus.
Keeping thislotas conservationhelps the County to meet itsgoals of Open Space preservation,from
the MIP, and KMCP Community Plan,as wellas achieve the goals of shoreline retreatas
recommended inthe CARE Committee and Multiplestudies.
Also, thisactionhelps us to depopulate and relocatethe Kiheifloodzone, as was recommended by
former planning directorDavid Goode.
Conserving thislotat 16 E WaipuilaniRoad willhelpto stabilizethe degraded watershed, and willhelp
preserve the site’sbeneficialfunction as the area’s de facto drainage basin.
This alsohelpsthe County towards itsgoal ofdesignatingand acquiring land for "green drainage
infrastructure”,as recommended inthe SMWP, and the KDMP.
Keep the propertyas is;Preservingthislotas is,has many benefitsand willnot overburden the local
community or itsaging infrastructure.The site’soriginalhistorichouse can remain, and continue to provide
1
housing.The open space and undeveloped land,can continueto provide beneficialservices.The site's
uncompacted Jaucus and Loamy sand soilscan continue to functionas a settlingarea forneighborhood
floodwaters,and the site'snativevegetationcan be encouraged to provideground cover and habitatfornative
species.Other possibleuses could includebecoming an urban naturepark or a community garden.
■ i 10
■j-iO VTil
regards,
David Dorn
2
RECEIVED
ZKZ JUL 15 PH 12:31Testimony CR 22-61. July 15-2022:
Hi my name isDayid Dorn, Ihaye liyednext to thispropertyforCfclv^rjgJ^^fS.jifipgpose
theHaleWaipuilaniProject. COUNTY CLERK
We shouldn’t be building more houses in Kihei’s worst flood zone:
There are betterplaces to buildhousing away from flood plainsand coastal hazards.
Kihei has an aging infrastructure,bad traffic,and a lack of area drainage. The localarea
surrounding thisspecificprojecthas no drainage and isknown to flood.
The Kihei Drainage Master Plan states that:
“The intersectionof East Waipuilani Road and South Kihei Road is the low spot of
South Kihei Road. Water isunable to drainefficientlyduring heayy rainfallbecause the
localdrainage system isnot designed to cope withlarge runoff.Pumping is required
to take out the water. The segment of South Kihei Road from West Waipuilani Road to
West Lipoa Streethas almost a leyelslope and isflooded during heavy rainfall”.
(KDMP 66/388)
Decades of neglect and bad planning decisions has leftthis community highly
exposed to flooding with inadequate stormwater drainage, roads, and infrastructure.
Naturalwaterways haye been compromised, because buildinghas been allowed in
wetlands, streambeds, gulches, and floodzones. The mistakes of the past haye created
a legacyofpoorlyplanned neighborhoods,and dysfunctionalstormwater systems.
Residents of my neighborhood livewith aging infrastructure,and lack of amenities
such as sidewalks,and no stormwater drainage system. The authoritiessay that
drainagefixescould be 20 years away. We livewiththe constant threatof flooding,and
there isno reliefinsight.
Most of you counselors do not live in our neighborhood, so you may find it
difficultto relateto this,except KellyKing who livesinour Moku. When itfloods
here no one comes to help you. When the water comes in,sometimes in the middle
of the night,ittakes over. Itcan be swiftand silentand take you by surprise,and
sometimes people do not wake up untiltheirbeds are floatingon floodwater. You cannot
stop the floodwater because itfindsa way in,even coming up through the ground, or
coming up drain pipes and sewers.
You cannot call 911 because they are too busy to help,you cannot flagdown a
passing firetruck,because they willnot stop,and you are on your own. Nobody is
1
.:?1r\
comingefhelpSinlessyouhavefamilyorfriendsthatyou can call,and they willhave to
make itto you through the floods.
:-0t
People stranded intheircars wait hours to be rescued and other vehicles drive around
them not stopping to help.
Parents have no choice but to risk the floodwater to get back to their children at
home, or to tryto evacuate. IfYou are old or disabledyou can only wait and pray that
you willbe okay. Sometimes we also lose power fordays, and we have been stuck
insideour home unable to leave forgroceriesor supplies. Neighbors cannot help you
because they too are inthe same situation.So you fightany way you can to tryto save
what isimportant,the people, and perhaps the photos and memories.
Living atWaipuManI Ihave been a victim of flooding several times over, but we
have been lucky to have flood insurance that helped us, but we almost didn'thave even
that.Afterfloodingwe often livewith the floodingeffectsfordays and weeks afterward,
waiting for pump trucks,then the contaminated mud to dry enough foritto be scraped
away, 50 truckloadsat a time.Months afterwarddust,silt,mold, continue,and ittakes a
long time to rebound from the impacts.The ocean can stay brown formonths, and
some people are unable to move back intotheirhomes untilthey have had an
expensive restoration.
Flooding in this exact location is already bad, but itcould get much worse. My
neighbors and Iare extremely concerned thathis projectwillmake floodingworse. And
we have no confidence in the promises of the Developer. They have told us thatthey
are not responsible for regional flooding, and they are not able to reduce alltheir
stormwater production, and they toldus thatthey willnot be responsible for
flooding harm to neighbors afterthe units are sold. They toldus thatthe residents
and HOA are responsible for their own flood insurance, and the homeowners will
be responsible for maintaining any stormwater system they install.The developer
has toldyou thatthey intendto add almost one Acre of new roof and impervious
services, and thatthey willproduce an additional6000 gallons per hour of
stormwater. That also said they could not stop the stormwater coming offtheirproperty,
but they could make itcleaner.Betsilladmitted that “there is (ground)water allover
this site”,and Carnicelliacknowledged that the area has a flooding problem.
The Planned Drainage System willnot work.
Several people includinglocaldrainage experts,builders,watershed scientists,and
architectshave testifiedthatthe planned under-ground/under-buildingdrainage
retentionsystem willnot work. The proposed method of stormwater disposalrelieson
2
percolationof stormwater intogroundwater using narrow perforatedpipesin
underground storage ponds. This type of system isknown to be high maintenance and
quicklylosesitseffectivenessifnot properlymaintained.
Underground Storage System; This area site is within the FEMA AH flood zone with
anticipated1-3 feet surface ponding. So any stormwater detention“holdingtanks" would
need to be placed above the 3-footflood height.Any underground storage system
would not work during anticipatedstorms with 3-footdeep ponding and surface flooding.
Underground percolation will not work with rising water tables:
The proposed underground “perforated-piperetentionponds" would not work inthe
event of risinggroundwater. Prolonged rainevents such as Kona Storms can last
severaldays, and typicallysaturatethe ground and bring water tables to the surface.
So the proposed underground drainage solutionswould likelyfailat the worst possible
times during a Kona Storm floodingevent.
The worst storms are vet to come:
We have notseen a 100-year storm inour lifetimes.Allof Kihei'sworst storms in the
lastthreedecades or more have not reached the anticipated100-year storm threshold.
Even though many storms are extremelysevere and propertyisdamaged, the biggest
storms are yet to come.
The Developer has been offered a Land Swap: The Maui County has offeredthe
developer the opportunityto discuss a land swap forcounty-owned land, in a more
suitablelocation.Although the developer initiallyagreed, they are now saying itwould
take too long forthatto happen.
Carnicelli said the 16E was not a wetland according to ACE (Army Corps of
EngineersT
FYI, The ACE designation by itselfisnot enough to protect a wetland. Even ifthis
Sitewas designated as an ACE “JurisdictionalWetland", Betsillwould stilltryto develop
it.Just as they already did to several wetland lotson Halama Street.
ills up to the County to decide what itwants to protect.Sites such as 16 E
Waipuilnido not have to meet the specificACE wetland criteriato be important to the
watershed. The County needs to value the beneficialfunctionaland services that these
types of sitesprovide to the area’s naturaldrainage.
3
Local Flooding Issues:
● Mr. Carnicellisaid that“most testimonywas forregionalflooding,and not local
flooding”.This is not the case. There has been a lotof specifictestimony given
by the immediate neighborsatallofthe meetings,regarding the specificsof
floodingat thisexact site.
● You have heard testimonyfrom the adjoiningneighbors livingon at leastthree
sides ofthisproperty.You have heard first-handtestimonyof flooding,diagrams,
and photos.
● The County has also heard verbal testimony and received writtentestimony from
the immediate neighbors regarding floodingwitnessed on thissiteitself,
describingthe water flowingacross thissiteand onto South Kihei Road, affecting
downslope properties.And you have heard specificdetailsof stormwater water
coming under the fencing and rock wallson the makai side,and floodingat this
siteaffectinggroundwater.
● And you have heard testimony from people affectedimmediately downslope on
West Waipuilani Road, Ewa Place, and South Kihei Road.
● You have received a petition,regarding the specificissues at thissitefrom the
200 immediate neighbors livinginapprox 100 affectedhouses neighboring this
property.
Site-specificdrainage testimony:There has been a lotof testimony given about the
immediate drainage problems, lack of curbs and stormwater drains.There has been
testimony about drainage through soilson thissite,as wellas the conditionofthe
groundwater and high water tableatthisspecificsite.
There is no doubt thatthisDevelopment willworsen the floodingconditions:
The Hale Waipuilanidevelopment would add approximately One Acre more of
stormwater producing surfaces.The combined area of Roof, Driveways, and other
impervious surfaces thatwillproduce stormwater isabout an acre. This represents a
significantchange to existingdrainage and floodingconditions.The proposed drainage
calculationsestimate approximately 6,000 gallons/hrwillbe added to the local
stormwater loads.
There isa high probabilitythatthe downslope neighbors and propertieswillbe impacted
by drainage from thisproject.Drainage from thissitealready affectsthe downslope
neighbors, so any increase instormwater runofffrom present conditions could have a
devastating impact on neighboring properties.Even adding a few inches to the flood
height or adding those thousands gallonsof expected stormwater runoff,can have
harsh consequences forthe neighbors. These harmful effectsare farreaching as
4
hundreds of homes share the same low elevation and are situated in a natural
depression thatfillswith stormwater.
Managing Surface Flow: There has been a lack of information by the developer about
surfaceflowconditions.And they have no clearplan about how they would manage
surface flows going onto thissite,especiallyduring Kona Storms and 3-footdeep
ponding.
Existing Surface-Flow Conditions: Currently,storm water surface-flows intothisproperty
from WaipuilaniRoad as wellas from (and to)South Kihei Road. Surface stormwater
flows from the NE corner to the SW corner of the site. Water flows downslope diagonally
across thissite.Flowing downslope, the surface water passes under the chainlinkfence
or unfenced portion(inthe SW corner)and across the 2 neighboring properties.The
corner properties are 1103 S Kihei Road, and 1093 S Kihei Road. Aftercrossing these
properties,stormwater then fillsthe South Kihei Road intersection at Kauhaa Street.
Floodwaters accumulate in this area and backfill into neighboring propertiesin both
directionsincludingthe 5-lotsimmediately makai of the property.
The 5 adjoining lots immediately makai of 16 E Waipuilani Road are:
1103 S Kihei Road. 1093 S Kihei Road, 1087 S Kihei Road. 1077 S Kihei Road, 6 E
Waipuilani Road. Propertiesacross SKR are also affected.And along W. Waipuilani
Road and Ewa Place and UluniuRoad. And severalsmaller,private roads makai of the
property are also affected.
Neighboring propertiesfacing the north side of 16 E Waipuilani Road are.
1051 S KiheiRoad, 15 E WaipuilaniRoad, 9 Eleu Place, on the NW catty-corneris37
WaipuilaniRoad. Elevationsvary littlebetween the 16E Waipuilani Road property and
the roadway. Other neighboringpropertiesare on the same levelwhere they are
vulnerableto flooding.
On-Slab Houses: Houses inthisarea are generallybuilton-slab because of the high
water table,and basements and below ground constructionisnot possible.Most of the
neighboring houses are builton-slab,and have littleresistance forflooding.
Eleu PlaceAA/aipuilani Road Intersection:
The entireintersection(Eleu Place and E. WaipuilaniRd.) also floods,and water ponds
here to a depth of severalfeet.Most houses along Eleu also flood at the same time.
5
Drainage patterns and Surface flows.
● East Waipuilani Road slopes down from the eastern side at Liloa Street end and
isthe lowest atthe corner of WaipuilaniRoad and South Kihei Road.
● WaipuilaniRoad varieslittleinelevationnear thisend and ismostly flatbetween
Eleu and South Kihei Road.
● The entireportionof the road along the northernside of 16 E Waipuilaniisflat,
and iswhere water pools and accumulates. This northern side of the propertyis
levelwith or slightlylower than the roadway.
● When itrains,water flows down Waipuilani Road, or onto thisproperty,between
Eleu and SKR, where itfloodsthe roadway and flows onto the property and
adjoininghouses.
● Water flowing onto the northern side of the 16 E Waipuilani property surface
flows across from the Northeast corner towards the South West corner. Shallow
parts of thislotwillaccumulate water, where there are generallyponds to a depth
of a foot or so. And then excess stormwater will drain towards the SE corner
across the southernmost propertieson the makai side.
● On the Makai side of the property,only 3 out of 5 houses have rock or concrete
walls. And the last 2 houses have either a chain link fence or no fence. Actually
the 4th house has a chain linkfence,and the last(5th)house doesn'thave any
fence at all.
● The majorityofthe outgoing surfacewater flowsover the cornerproperty(1103
South Kihei Road) and flows onto South KiheiRoad.
● Stormwater coming onto South KiheiRoad from thispropertywillfloodthe
Kauhaa/SKR intersection.Stormwater ponds here and backfills,where itwill
migrate north and south along SKR and enter the frontside ofthe property’s
makai neighbors.
Neighbors adjoining the Eastern side of the property include:
38 E Waipuilani,36 E Waipuilani,30 E Waipuilani,26 E WaipuilaniRoad. These
propertiesare on the same elevationas 16 E Waipuilani,and are separated by a low
row of cinder blocks thatvaries from 6-20 inches high.This wall isinconsistentand
broken inmany places.Several propertieson the eastern side have stormwater drains
or french drains that either soak excess rain water intothe groundwater or directsurface
flow toward the subjectproperty.The driveway on the eastern sidefeaturesseveral
largegrated stormwater drainsthatreach about 5 feetindepth and are permanently
filledwith a footor two of water. Presumably thisdrain water comes from the water table
which is known to be close to the surface in this entire area.
6
The southern side of the property:
The Southern side isa 5-6 foot high retainingwall from the meadowlands projectand
Kauhaa Road. N.B. That southern retainingwall exhibitssigns of permanent water
seepage into16 E Waipuilani property side.
The Urbanized Watershed: In developed areas, the watershed becomes urbanized.
Water that flowed in streams flows into stormwater drains, and streets become
tributaries.Housing developments and parking areas become the catchment areas, and
low-lyingareas become drainage basins. This isdescribed inthe South Maui
Watershed Plan. Unfortunatelyinthe absence of proper urban drainage planning,
nature has adapted to the environment. But unfortunatelyforresidentsthispartof Kihei
islocated ina drainage basin with no ocean outlets.
Sources of Flooding: Floodingonto and around thissitecomes from a number of
differentsources.And willeventuallyend up inthisneighborhood. Localized flooding
from heavy Kona storms produces vast amounts of stormwater, hardened surface roads
and rooftopsincrease localstormwater productionof surface runofffar exceeds the
absorption.Storms at higherelevationscreateflashflooding,and swell stormwater
channels,gulliesand gulches.Stormwater and heavy rains can also increase
groundwater, and cause water tables to rise,This creates areas of ground floodingand
increased exfiltrationofwater coming out ofthe ground. Surface water and groundwater
flowsdownslope. Rain fallinginthe lower partofthe watershed, below PiilaniHighway,
willoftentravelalong streetsand through propertiesuntilithitsthe lowest portions of
the floodplain.This particularpartof Kiheihas no outletsto the ocean. So stormwater
buildsup, ponds, and backfillsintohouses and other areas.
Flooding from localstreams and gulches:
Local streams and gulches willalso flood,break theirbanks and flow laterallyaffectthis
area. Floodwaters from Kulanihakoi,WaipuilaniGulch, PiilaniHighway, and Keokea
flow downhilland joinatthe floodplain,inparticularat South Kihei Road. Any one or
severalsources can combine and travellaterallyalong South Kihei road. South Kihei
Road acts as a transverseauwai (waterchannel).
Shared Water Table: Allthe neighboringpropertiesshare a common water table,and
what affectsone impacts them all.Adding or disposingof thisdevelopment's stormwater
intothe groundwater could raisethe water table foralladjoining properties.This would
have the greatestimpact duringthe heaviestrainsand storms.
7
There are 2500 Affordable homes in the pipeline:
Maui currentlyhas 36 AffordableHousing projectsinthe works and accordingto Mayor
Victorino(editorialre AffordableHousing Maui News 4/30/22),there are 2,500
affordablehomes inthe pipeline.
Disapproving willhave a negligibleimpact on Affordable Housing:
Disapproving this28-unitprojectwillhave a negligibleimpact on Maui’s affordable
housing and represents only about 1 percent of affordablehousing inthe pipeline.
Betsill already has multiple projects in the works:
Betsillalready has multipleprojectsinthe works, includingthe 204 unitKuikahi project
in Wailuku. And Betsdilhas been offered a land swap from the County to relocate Hale
Waipuilaniprojectto higher ground. What they ultimatelydecide to do isup to them.
They say they are “entitled”to buildmarket-ratehomes under the currentzoning, but
they willalso have to prove proper drainage foran SMA also.
Betsill and Alaula Builders can be good neighbors:
HopefullyBetsillistrulya “good neighbor” as they claim,so surelythey should want the
safest housing forour futureworkforce.To thisend they should be amenable to
relocatingthe Hale Waipuilaniprojectto a bettersuitedarea,where thereare adequate
amenities, and no flood zones, or coastal hazards.
Land swap deal is the best option:
Maui County currentlydoesn'thave the 133 milliondollarbudget tofixdrainage
Infrastructureto make Kihei safe from flooding.But the County does have land.The
County has land availableatthe KiheiPoliceStation,at Maui Lani,and inthe central
valleynear Pu’unene. Any of these areas are farbettersuitedforhousing,and are free
from the flooding,and coastalhazards oftsunami,sea levelrise,and climatechange.
County needs to protect Kihei:
Kihei cannot accommodate more traffic,or more housing infloodzones, so we need to
reduce development on the floodplain,and encourage a retreatfrom the shoreline.
New urban areas and housing should be on higher ground, and farfrom known flood
zones. Only the County has the power to make the choices necessary to make this
happen.
8
Best use of 16 E Waipuilani is Conservation:
● This siteshould be placed intoconservation.This isone of the area’slast
remaining open spaces. And itispartofthe localwatershed and wetland nexus.
● Keeping thislotas conservationhelps the County to meet itsgoals ofOpen
Space preservation,from the MIP, and KMCP Community Plan,as wellas
achieve the goals of shorelineretreatas recommended inCARE Committee and
Multiplestudies.
● Also thisaction helps us to depopulate and relocatethe Kiheifloodzone, and
was recommended by David Goode.
● Conserving thislotat 16 E WaipuilaniRoad willhelp to stabilizethe degraded
watershed, and willhelp preserve the site’sbeneficialfunctionas the area's de
facto drainage basin.
● This also helps the County towards itsgoal of designatingand acquiring land for
“green drainage infrastructure”,as recommended inthe SMWP, and the KDMP.
Keep the property as is:
Preserving thislotas is,has many benefitsand willnot overburden the localcommunity
or itsaging infrastructure.The site’soriginalhistorichouse can remain, and continue to
provide housing. The open space and undeveloped land,can continue to provide its
beneficialservices.The uncompacted Jaucus sand soilscan continue to function as a
settlingarea forneighborhood floodwaters,and the site'snative vegetation can be
encouraged to provide ground cover and habitatfornative species. Other possible uses
could includebecoming an urban nature park or a community garden.
Regards,
David Dorn
9
REFERENCES:
“To address the floodingproblems at South Kihei Road, itwillinvolve several factors
such as land acquisition,roadway and privatedriveways reconstruction,utility
relocation,and community involvement”. KDMP 12/388
“Each futuredevelopment, both mauka and makai of PiilaniHighway, isassumed to
controlitsonsiteincreased runoff(detentionfacilities)so as to not to cause adverse
impact to the downstream areas”. KDMP 10/388
“Several well-definedgulches existwithinthe study area that carry large quantitiesof
storm water runoffacross PiilaniHighway and South Kihei Road to the ocean. Rare, but
intense, storms cause flash floods in the lowland areas". KDMP 17/388
"The flow discharges to open spaces past PiilaniHighway and sheet flowstothe ocean
seeking naturaloutlets”.
Kihei-DMP-Pre-Final-Report-Complete-11-04-16.pdf
“The storm drainage system on South KiheiRoad isnot meant toconvey largerunoff’.
KDMP 23/388
“The LiDAR topography shows South KiheiRoad isalmost levelforthe majorityof its
segment. As a result,floodingisobserved throughoutSouth KiheiRoad duringheavy
rainfall.The floodingisnoticeablysevere forthe northernportionofSouth KiheiRoad
between Kulanihakoi Districtand Charlie Young District”.KDMP 23/388
“The FIRM shows the area from approximately 1,300 feet mauka of South KiheiRoad to
the ocean isinundated by both the Kulanihakoi Gulch and WaipuilaniGulch floodplain.”
KDMP 45/388
"The floodingproblems along South KiheiRoad are caused by the overflowfrom both
KulanihakoiGulch and WaipuilaniGulch”. KDMP 46/388
No development isanticipatedmakai of PiilaniHighway”. KDMP 48/388
“Insufficientchannel/culvertcapacity forces the storm water to overflow intothe nearby
lotsand causes floodingat South Kihei Road”. KDMP 56/388
“The intersectionof East WaipuilaniRoad and South KiheiRoad isthe low spot of South
Kihei Road. Water isunable to drain efficientlyduring heavy rainfallbecause the local
10
drainage system isnotdesigned tocope withlargerunoff.Pumping isrequiredtotake
out the water.The segment of South KiheiRoad from West WaipuilaniRoad toWest
Lipoa Streethas almost a levelslope and isfloodedduringheavy rainfall”.
KDMP 66/388
“The area bounded by South Kihei Road, West Lipoa Street,Uluniu Road, and West
Waipuilani Road lacks a drainage system. The existingterrainwithinthisenclosed area
generallyisina sump conditionmaking ita challenge to drain.The storm water isnot
collectedand flows overland seeking naturaloutletsto the ocean. Whenever there are
depressions inthe terrain,ponding willoccur. A 12” pipe running along Uluniu Road is
the only drainlineidentifiedinthisarea and outletsto the beach via an 18” pipe.The
latestFIRM shows the area withinKeok 1_2, approximately from 480 feet mauka of
South KiheiRoad tothe ocean, issubjecttoZone AO (shallow floodingdue to sheet
flow on slopingterrain)and Zone AH (shallowingfloodingdue to ponding)”.
KDMP 66/388
KIHEI-MAKENA COMMUNITY PLAN (1998):
httDs://www.mauicountv.QOv/DocumentCenter/View/1712/Kihei-Makena -Communitv-Pla
n-1998
“The significantamount of vacant land mauka of Pi'ilaniHighway will,inthe future,
provideopportunitiesto expand publicfacilities,parks and housing”. KMCP 13/69
“Establisha system of parks,utilityeasements, shorelineareas, drainageways and
wetlands as an open space framework forthe urban areas of the region,i.e.where
structuresexistor are planned to exist,and provide an integratedsystem of pedestrian
and bicyclepaths”.KMCP 17/69
“Prepare an Open Space Master Plan forthe regionto provide a unifiedsystem of
non-motorized access to community resources, and to provide a planned program of
resource stewardship. Establishstandards forthe use of drainageways, gulches,
wetlands, and easements forpublicaccess". KMCP 19/69
“ ...preventhaphazard development, and ensure thatthe provisionof adequate
infrastructureand publicfacilitiesand servicestakes place priorto or concurrent with
development”. KMCP 19/69
“Requirethe integrationofwetlands and drainageways intoan open space, pedestrian
pathway, and bikeway system withinand around the Lipoa business district”.KMCP
21/69
11
Maui Island Plan: https://www.mauicountv.Qov/1503/Maui-island-Plan
Maui island Plan Book:
https://www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/84686/Whoie-Maui- lsland-Plan-Boo
k
“The island’sinfrastructuresystems are vitalto our community, economic prosperity,
and qualityof life.They are also expensive to construct,maintain and replace.However,
for Maui to be prosperous inthe futurewe must now make the same sacrificeour
grandparents made. We must aim to share theirforesightand be willingto make the
investments needed to provide a stable futureforour childrenand grandchildren”.(MIP
6-2)
“Identifyand improve hazardous and substandard sectionsof roadways, drainage
infrastructure,and bridges,provided thatthe historicalintegrityof the roads and bridges
are protected”.(MIP 31-77)
“Consider identification,acquisitionwhere appropriate,and utilizationof abandoned
right-of-waysforbikeways, pedestrianpathways, and open-space networks”.MIP 31-77
“Major floodsfrom severe storms typicallyoccur duringthewinterseason (October
through April)and account for84 percent ofthe floodsinthe islands.1Kona storms are
typicallythe most destructivestorms inHawai'i,based on frequency.Storm intensities
may includewind speeds up to 60 miles per hour withfloodingrainsand snow storms
on Haleakala.Kona low pressure systems are relativelylong-livedstorms, often
affectingHawai'ifora week or more, and have been historicallyresponsiblefora great
deal of damage”. (MIP - Severe Storms and Flooding).
“The Universityof Hawai'i Coastal Geology Center has predictedthatthe sea levelwill
riseinthe coming decades. This would impact allcoastlines,and would most severely
affectMaui’s developed, low-lyingcommunities: Ma'alaea, North KThei,Lahaina,
Ka'anapali,and Kahului.Prudent land use planning wiltconsiderpossiblesea-levelrise
as a variableinthe future”.(MIP - Sea Level Rise).
ASSESSMENT OF FEASIBILITY OF MANAGED RETREAT IN HAWAI’I
httDs://DlanninQ.hawaii.Qov/czm/ormp/ormp-action"team-Droiect-on -the-feasibilitv-of-man
aaed-retreat-for-hawaii/
12
“Managed retreatessentiallymeans shiftingdevelopment inlandfrom thecoasteither
by the physicalmovement ofstructuresor changing the restrictionsand management of
Hawaii’s coastal areas’’.
https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp/assessing_the_feasibility_and_implications_
of_managed_retreat_strategies_for_vulnerable_coastal_areas_in_hawaii.pdf
Climate Change Main Adaptation Strategies:“Managed Retreat involves relocating
existingstructuresout of the vulnerable area and avoiding new development there”.
Codiga & Wager, 2011
“Most ofthe development inlandof the coastalhighway issituatedwithinthe tsunami
evacuation zone and are within the NFIP VE Zone, where there is a 1% annual chance
of inundationby a floodevent and the additionalhazard of storm-induced velocitywave
action.Ifa 100-year flood were to occur, some stretches of the State highway would
become inundated and some communities could be leftinaccessible”.Managed Retreat
37/84
Office of Climate Change and Resiliency:
https://www.mauicountv.qov/142/Office-of-Climate-Chanae-Resilien cv-and-
SMWP FINAL REPORT: Southwest Maui Watershed Management Plan, Maui County,
HI FinalReport 2019
https://www.mauiwatershed.org/_files/ugd/c0882d_9514cad08a164e67a2e81fe9d81fcd
cb.pdf
“Many ofthe existingwetlands have been filledinand paved over to make room for this
development. Stormwater isunable tofilterthroughthe soiland instead,flows over
these impervioussurfacesdirectlyintothe ocean, transportingsediment, oiland
hazardous waste, nutrientsand pathogens directlyintothe ocean”.(SMWP 87/163)
“when stormwater events do occur,the potentialforflashfloods,and very large
stormwater volumes ispossiblewithinthiswatershed". SMWP 159/163
“Both publicinfrastructuresuch as roads and bridgesand private property are
damaged duringstorm events by sediment laden stormwater”.SMWP 23/163
13
South KiheiRoad between Kauhaa Streetand WaipuilaniRd
(T
16-E-Waipuilani-Road-groundwater-leakage.jpg
V
4:.
14
. <v,f.L5
Corner House where the stormwater from 16 E Waipuilani. flows out
(Kauhaa-street-google-street-view.jpg):
ItaStRMW
9 1
d.
■>. kv?i .-●ST fj'zi
J
m ■M
y ■‘k
«l'i-.
I
.4 ,» t" ^
%
I1' ● *
■u.
?
v''
vj; .'1 f' -f
P^'i.Gfroglc
rt
V.- C
^1 \v'Vi
15
Kauhaa- Street and South-Kihei-Road-after-storm:
r
i
● A- ●'■ia
g.7 'S* i S
16
16-E-Waipuilani-Roadgroundwater-in-storm-drain7/13/22:
^
fi^V* '
I ■
r'-*' ,.r
Ws-.- IIVli*^
-W
fS'
SS'V '"’<●
n
S^vs r
l^- n
i
I <. , '» - ' ^X% '
a^■
■■>.■>.r'.
n
.f)
16-E-Waipuilani“Road-groundwater-in-storm-grate:
4
, *
j
[ii
■',: :ak> ●"'■'.1 ^"● ●X,ch
HiTI'
● *,
f.
‘f?■ cnu .»*●
■'>/j.r●;●:’●I.
rt:I
'-t-V\ \I I
■2 ■ -1'1
?»
?4=i=s
t>X
f.-\., :-V
31
It V,
-'n.
if*-!
? '
A●*.
* 4j ^ 'ti'
\
It ’■W!* **'*i'
w.‘
17
18
16-E-Waipuilani-Road-eastern-wall(Carnicellisaid there isno possibilityforfloodwater
to come onto the eastern side of the property):
19
20
16-E-Waipuilani-Road-block-wall.jpg
21
West-Waipuilani-Road-Flooded,Propertiesdownslope affectedby floodwater.
N
16-E-Waipuilani-Road-0!d-Sheds:
*
iR
If
'YV-
I
These sheds and adjoininghomestead predate most ofthe otherhouses inthe area.Records
show the home at thissitedating to around 1957.
22
16-E-Waipuilani-Road-neighbors-piants(‘Ae‘ae):
Bacopa monnieri, Hawaiian name: ‘Ae‘ae These water lovingplantsfound around thesite.They
areperfectlyadapted forthe damp soilconditions.They are an ethnobotanicalplantwith
medicinalproperties.The watertabicatthissiteisa footor two below the surface.
16-E-Waipuilani-KiheiAerialWetland-Context;
23
Waipuilani-Wetlands-Group (Waipuilani/KawililipoaWetlandsGroup):
'^riKEA SOUTH!
WAIPUILANI MAUKA
●sa.
i-- '
4. .
EWAWETUNDS
'■<■● V
"v\ *
V
KAVWLILIPOA VFW
EWA WETLANDS WATERSHED FEATURES
FISHPOND
WETLAND,
SITE
SITE
BASIN
Watershed FeaturesDiagram (Source,South Maui Wetlands technicalreport)
24
Flooding Diagram: Waipuilani/Kawililipoa(Source.South Maui Wetlandstechnicalreport):
Kihei-CAT4-StormSurge-16E-Waipuilani-Road (3footdeep flooding):
STORM SURGE CAT4 - 16 E. WAIPUILANI ROAD KIHEl
i-'ijTw’T-. ●
ft;
U 'IT
■ < R J I
‘c*itijnS ^ uund
ill iC
25
Carnicellisaid, this sitewas not in a tsunami evacuation zone, (thatisnot the case):
% a 9 '■O * tsunamUoKtnoaa.gov/*, % ^ -tr
CuJi TSUNAMI AWARE ' Hswan C^iHm f »
jliukiihr I /
I
9
Zomr
I (4re0«TiiMn
tmnMtanhm
Siitlom
Map Sate'liie
+
FEMA FIRM Flood Map, Zone AH 1-3 foot Flooding:
<- -> O A Not secure gis.hawaiinfip.ora/fiiat/
Stateof Hawai, Department cf Land and Nature Resources
Flood Hazani Assessment Tool
:T-
I + Ho, ieewVi‘wubniKd,K^,m,96753.USA
ZDNEX'.T'm'\●
2022 0 Caprri^ by AH n^Ks t«cen^ ^odit
26
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 6:14AM
County Clerk
KellyKing;Keani N. Rawlins;Mike J.Molina;AliceL Lee;YukileiSugimura; Tasha A.
Kama; Gabe Johnson; Shane M. Sinenci;Tamara A. Paltin
Testimony cc 22-61:1oppose the Hale Waipuilaniproject,
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Dear Council Persons,
1 oppose the Hale Waipuilani project.
Various people have created a falsenarrativethatthe people livinginthe floodzone chose to livehere.
This narrativeispushed by buildersand lobbyists.This isjusta form ofvictimblaming thatsuitstheiragenda.
Do not listento lobbyistsand constructionindustryshillsthatare victim-blamingpeople livinginfloodzones.
They have totallyignored the vast amount of testimony regardingthe area problems,inparticularthe
dangerous lack of basic infrastructure.And the known hazards.
Kiheiisunderrepresented on the Planning Commission
Outsiders also do not know the problems of dealing withthe Maui County PlanningCommission, which rubber
stamps allconstructionprojects,regardlessofthe environmentalimpactsoffloodingconsiderations.We have
been to many Planning Commission meetings and had our testimonycompletelyignoredorwe have been told
that itisjustnot true.Outsiders also do not know thatour planningcommission does nothave a singlemember
that livesin Kihei.Outsiders are always tryingto tellKiheiresidentswhat isgood forthem, and they
consistentlyignorethe testimony of localresidents,and theirlivedexperiences,orthe localconditionsthatwe
experience here.
My neighbors and Idid not choose to livein a floodzone.
But we now realizethatwe do, and we also are trapped livinghere,because ofthe housingmarket.We didnot
move here because itwas a flood zone, we came here because itwas what we could afford.
Mortgage QualificationIssues; many people livinginthisareawould notqualifyfora mortgagetoday,some
are retiredor do not make enough fortoday'sprices.Many cannoteven qualifytorefinancetheirown homes.
When Ibought my home Iwas self-employedand was abletomake a “StatedIncome”loan,(akaa “No Docs
Loan") at 7.5% interest.Iwould never have got a mortgage otherwise.Nowadays thesetypesofloansare not
available,also Iwouldn't qualifyforanother mortgage today.So Icannotmove toa new home unlessIcan pay
cash for it.In short,1am stuck here, unless 1cash-out and move to a smaller,cheaper apartment.
When Ibought my home over 20 years ago Iwas never tolditwas a floodzone,
● 1have never lived in the area before,
● and as a first-timehomeowner Ididn'tknow what questions to ask.
● Ididn'tknow what a titlecompany was, or mortgages, or anythingrelatedtohome ownership.
● Ichose my home because itwas the cheapest one inKihei,and theonlyone thatIcouldafford.
Because itwas required by the mortgage company;
● 1 had a home inspection/valuation
● Ihad a termiteinspection
● Iwas requiredby the mortgage company to have floodinsurance
● I also needed home insurance,
● and Ihad to have titleprotectioninsurance.
1
What Was not declared or disclosed to me:
● Itwas never declared to me that this area had a bad floodingproblem,
● i was never declared that this location had no stormwater drainage,
● or that my home’s floorlevelwas below the area’s Base Flood elevation,
● Ithinkthatmaybe the FEMA Firm designation came later.
● 1 was never informed that I would not be able to buildohanas withoutraisingthe floorlevelofthe entire
house.
● Iwas never toldthat my house was inthe SMA, or subject to CZM.
● 1was never informed that my home was in the Tsunami Zone.
● Iwas never informed thatmy home was subjectto Sea Level Rise.
● Itisa new rulethat REA (Real Estate Agents) have to declare to homebuyers thathouses are inthe
SLRXA.
NB, Many of these items are stillnot requiredto be disclosedto homebuyers today.
The Flood Zone has been created around us.
According to long-timeresidentJimmy Gomes (73 years livinghere on WaipuilaniRoad),
This area always flooded,but itwas never thisbad. The water came down the mountain but was filteredby the
vegetation and would run clean to the ocean. But over time development has worsened the flooding.More
concrete and lessvegetationhave made the floodingworse year by year.
Inthe last20 years since Iowned my home, 1have experiencedworsening floodingand more frequent
flooding.
The floodinggot worse afterBetsillbuiltthe Meadowlands projectnextdoor in2017. There was a major flood
in Kiheiduring the constructionof Betsill’sprojectson WaipuilaniGulch Some say because duringconstruction
they blocked the stream bed there.And floodinggot worse afterBetsillbuiltintothe gulches at Kulanihakoi
gulch,Keokea Gulch, and otherwetlands.And floodinggets worse every time someone buildshousing
projectsuphill.
Because there isno proper County stormwater system, most projectshave been allowed to dump their
stormwater onto neighboringpropertiesina daisy-chaineffect.Subsequently, allstormwater accumulates in
the lowestelevationson the floodplain.This iswhat the Planning Commission has allowed and we are not
experiencingthe cumulativeeffectsofstormwater dumping.
The County and Planning Commission have allowed the floodingto get worse:
The County and Planning Commission have allowed the floodingtogetworse inmy area because theynever
requiredany ofthe developersto createa pepper drainagesystem, and many times deferred theirrequired
SMA infrastructure contributions.
The Maui County helped to createthe floodingproblems thatwe are experiencingtoday.By negligenceand
omission,the county has allowed a dangerous conditionto develop because they never added the appropriate
infrastructure,orfollowedthroughon theirdrainageplans orwatershed management plans.
Please listento the local residents who are affected by thefloodingproblems.And who standsto be impacted
by the increasingfloodingproblemsthatoverdevelopmentat thissitecould cause.
Regards,
David Dorn
2
POLICE DEPARTMENT
COUNTY OF MAUI
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
MAYOR
JOHN PELLETIER
CHIEF OF POLICE55 MAHALANI STREET
WAILUKU, HAWAII 96793
(808) 244-6400
FAX (808)244-6411
OUR REFERENCE CHARLES L. HANK III
DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICEYOUR REFERENCE
July 14, 2022
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793 90
75C“n
m5p
m —i
XX
xm
For Transmittal to:
OI/I m
Honorable Alice Lee, Chair
and Members of Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
<
m
o
V/l
Dear Chair King and Council Members
SUBJECT: BILL 21, CD1, FD1(2022), SEABIRD AND BIODIVERSITY
PROTECTION (PAF 22-164)
Thank you forthe opportunityto testifyinperson at the Council Meeting on July 1,2022
regardingthe above-referencedmatter. Pursuant toyour letterdated July 12, 2022, this
responds to your requestforwrittentestimony. At thistime, Iam requesting a fulland
permanent exemption of thisordinance forallthose inpublicsafety.
As Itestified,the numerous reasons forsuch an exemption include,but are not limited
to,crime scene investigations,hostage barricades,fatalaccidents and violentcriminal
apprehensions. There should be no mandate on what lightisused as itpertainsto
publicsafety.Since these incidentsare criticaland as technology expands, 1would hate
forus to be limitedinour abilityto be as effectiveas possible.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Sin
lb.^HN PELLETIER
Chiefof^olice
GRASSROOT RECEIVED
INSTITUTE OF HAWAII im JUL 15 AH & 02
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
July 15, 2022
9 a.m.
Council Chamber, Kalana O Maui Building
8th Floor,200 South High St.
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
To: Council of the County of Maui
Alice Lee, Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
From: Grassroot Institute of Hawaii
Joe Kent, Executive Vice President
RE: Bill107 (’CPU to establisha new method of determining the sales priceof an affordable
dwelling unitto include the totalhousing costs associated with home ownership such as
principal,interest,taxes, homeowner's insurance, privatemortgage insurance, and
homeowner's association dues.
Comments Only
Aloha, Chair and Council members.
My name isJoe Kent and Iam the executive vice president of the Grassroot Instituteof Hawaii
a 501 (c)3 nonprofitpolicyresearch organization.
The instituteisa taxpayer watchdog group that promotes the values of individualliberty,
economic freedom and accountable government.
We have concerns that Bill107 (CD1), though well-intentioned,could cause homebuilders to
stop buildingaffordablehomes. This isbecause the billwould reduce the sale priceof a home
by approximately 20% to 22%, which would virtuallywipe out any profithomebuilders currently
enjoy and significantlyreduce the financialincentivefor homebuilders to investin projects.
Affordable housing projectsalready sellat below-market pricesand barelypencilout as itis.As
a result,homebuilders recoup by adding to the pricesof theirhigher-end homes.
Bill107 makes the below-market pricesforworkforce homes even lower by requiringtotal
housing costs to fitwithin31% of gross household income. “Totalhousing costs”under thisbill
includenot onlythe mortgage and interest,but also homeowner associationfees,propertytax,
privatemortgage insurance and home insurance. Those additionalcosts can vary,but on
,average, adding them to the totalpricethatcan be charged forworkforce housing would lower
the actualsales cost of the homes by 20 to 22%.
Reducing priceseven furtherby simple decree would erase what littleincentive homebuilders
have to buildaffordablehousing. The resultwillbe no new affordablehousing projectsat all.
which would hurt the very people thisproposal isintended to help.
Instead of tryingto lower pricesby mandate, Maui County Council members should consider
reformingthe county’sregulationsto allow more housing to be built,as outlinedinthe report
“How to buildaffordable,thrivingneighborhoods,” produced by the nationalState Policy
Network.''
Here isa summary of proposals from that reportmost applicable to Maui:
» Allow smaller housing. Let housing be as small as builders,buyers and renterswant.
» Allow smaller lots. Minimum lot sizes have no clear health or safetyjustification.
» Allow residences in commercial districts.Allow officeparks and malls to buildhousing.
Allow vacant downtown storefronts to convert to residential use.
» Allow tallerbuildings. Remove limitson height.Where firedepartment capabilitiesmight be
affected,ensure thatnew buildingscan providefortheirown fireresponse.
» Allow subdivision of existing structures. Historically,one of the most important sources of
low-cost housing has been single-familyhomes thatwere turned intoboarding homes or
subdivided intoapartments.
Allow single-room occupancy buildings. Housing with shared bathroom and/or kitchen
facilitiesbenefitslow-income residents,especiallynear dense employment districts.
»
Legalize the “Golden Girls.” Remove or loosen restrictionson the number of occupants or
nonrelated persons allowed ina housing unit,except for firecode restrictions.
»
» Waive some building code requirements for temporary homeless shelters. Imperfect
housing forunsheltered homeless populations isbetterthan the status quo.
» Allow extra kitchens. Permit homeowners to add additional kitchens to adapt to their
evolving needs.
» Allow accessory apartments. Accessory dwellingunitsadd more housing and often can
make itpossibleforthe homeowners to betteraffordtheirown housing costs.
' “How to build affordable, thrivingneighborhoods.” State PolicyNetwork, Local Government Working
Group, 2019.
» Allow larger “house” on the same land. Reduce setback, floorarea ratioand lot-coverage
rules.
» End single-family-only zoning. Many people cannot afforda large,detached house. Allow
duplexes, triplexesorfourplexes inplaces zoned foronly single-familyhouses.
» Enact a “Permit Freedom Act” for building permits. Require clearpermittingstandards
defined response time and the optionforindependent judicialreview.
» Publish pre-approved plans. Pre-approve plans forcommon projects likeADUs or
single-familyhomes, then permitexpedited review forprojectsusing these plans.
» Reduce politicalapprovals. Ifa projectcomplies with existingzoning, itshouldn’trequire
more than a planning department approval and buildingpermits to proceed.
» Set up one-stop, parallel-process permitting. Let applicantssubmit allpermitting
documents inone place.Allow departmental reviews to happen at the same time.
Outsource building permit application review. Outsource plumbing, electrical,mechanical
and structuralcode review when demand peaks.
»
We urge the Maui County Council to shelve any proposal thatwould stifleaffordablehousing in
the islands,such as thiscurrentprice-fixingproposal.
Instead,please consider the reform optionslistedabove, which would be more likelyto succeed
inincreasinghousing supply and easing housing pricesforMaui residentsseeking a home.
Sincerely,
Joe Kent
Executive vice president
Grassroot Institute of Hawaii
Count^£lerk
ScottAbbott <scottmabbott@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 4:32 PM
County Clerk
From:
Sent;
To: OQ
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waip6i)al^
5q
Subject: mc=
[You don'toften get email from scottmabbott@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
OO 22:
r:n
rn
Aloha Councilmember, CO
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
1
Count^£leH<
JunelleAkiona <akiona.junelle@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:56 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From;
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom akiona.junelle@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Junelle M. Akiona
O 73
c m
50"im O
m\-n-<
oo “n
mm -I
o\jy
*0
1
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Lorinda Alana <lorinda.alana@k12.hi.us>
Friday,July15,2022 8:06 AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from lorinda.alana@kl2.hi.us.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalol
Lori Alana
and ailteachersat KingKamehameha IIIElementarySchool
### We are relianton affordablehousing to stay and work forthe publicschools of MAUI COUNTY!!!!
This isa staffemail account managed by Hawaii Department Of Education School District.This email and any files
transmitted with itare confidentialand intended solelyforthe use ofthe individualor entityto whom they are
addressed.Ifyou have receivedthisemail inerrorplease notifythe sender.
&
OO
0*n
CD
"i m
73
m
o
fTl-<
OO -n
mrn <3? c72^- o
*o
1
Count^£lei^
Lorinda Alana <lorinda.alana@k12.hi.us>
Friday,July15,2022 8:14 AM
County Clerk;Mike J.Molina;Shane M. Sinenci;Tamara A. Paltin;Gabe Johnson;AliceL
From:
Sent:
To:
Lee
Subject: We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
I You don'toften get email from lorinda.alana@kl2.hi.us.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Lori Alana
and allthe teachers here at Kamehameha IIIElementary School.
**Teachers need to own affordable homes to continue to serve our public schools
Ihave been sleepingon a couch for5 years —I am TIRED of rentingat my age	
Iwillmove ifIhave to even though Iam rated an effective/highlyeffectiveteacherby Hawaii DOE and have 6 yearsof
experience
with the community here in Lahaina.Please have a heartforthe community contributorsand pass AffordableHousing
initiatives
especiallyones that offerhome ownership opportunities.
This isa staffemail account managed by Hawaii Department Of EducationSchool District.This emailand any files
transmitted with itare confidentialand intended solelyfor the use of the individualor entityto whom they are
addressed.Ifyou have receivedthisemail inerrorplease notifythe sender.
OC 7)0*TI
m
OZQ m m\n<
OO <
●n
mm
O50X
7;ni
1
RECEIVEDTo: Maui County Council Affordable Housing Committee
Re: RESO 22-130, Testimony In Opposition Based on Personal Experience JUL I4 PH I? 50
From:HelenDaleAllen-Alioto ppFormer residentof the Waipuilani Beach Park area near the proposed
Honorable Maui Council Representatives:
PLEASE DO NOT PASS THE PROPOSED WAIPUILANI HALE DEVELOPMENT. IF BUILT.
THE DEVELOPMENT WILL CAUSE MORE HARM THAN GOOD. THE DEVELOPERS WILL
BENEFIT TO THE DETRIMENT OF THE ADJOINING NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE WHOLE
KIHEI COASTLINE AND OCEAN,AND, IS LIKELY TO NOT BENEFIT THOSE NEEDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
Ioppose RESO 22-130 forthe followingreasons:
A.My experiences with floodinginthe inthe Waipuilanineighborhood
I.My property
From July 2002 through October 20 2017 Ilivedinon the end of Eva Place which isadjacentto
the property in question (Waipuilani Road ending at Waipuilani Beach Park which continues on
to Uluniu Road past the UFW land and then inback of MacDonalds near KeiheiRoad (‘“the
Property”).
Ihad an elevationstudy done when we bought the property.Our house was measured at about
7 feetabove sea leveland the lowest partofthe yard was at2 1/2feetabove sea level,The
water table in most of the yard was from 5 feetto maybe 11 or 2 inches above the water table.
Judging from the floods thatwe experienced, the Waipulani neighborhood stands inmost ofthe
area around 2 1/2 feet or so below sea level. With most floods includingthe most catastrophic
floods,most ofthe neighborhood became a lake.
2.Floods
During the time that Ilivedon Ewa Place, most every time thatthere was measurable rainfall,
the roads particularlyWaipuilani Road and Eva Place
became impassable except forfour wheel drivevehicles.There were severalcatastrophicfloods
inwhich not only the roads were impassable but many or most of the houses inthe
neighborhood were inundated with mud and the water pooled likea swimming pool across the
neighborhood especiallythe Property inquestion.
Two times Iwatched as water rushed in from the top of my property as ittraveledfrom uphill.
The water rushed in and receded slowly,especiallyaround the Property.
Major Flood 1
\stood on dry land at the highest pointof my property as the water rushed in. Within a few
minutes Iwas standing in at least2 feet of water as the water rushed in.
The water water rushed invery rapidlyand then the neighborhood became was one big lake.
The water stood forseveral days. The Property was a lake along with the adjacent propertynext
to mine. - W 1
Major Flood 2
There was a major storm that dropped several inches of rainover several hours. The roads
quicklybecame impassable. Rocks and large pieces of debris rushed around the yard. The
next day Ipaddled a surf ski from my house 100 feet to the street,Eva Place. The water was at
least3 feetinplaces on my driveway.The whole neighborhood again was a lake and the water
stood and slowly receded over a period of about 2 weeks. The Property was inthe worse area
forthe standing water and lasted over a long period of time.The receding water smelled of paint
or solvent as well as a sewer type smell.
Flood water
As can be imagined, the water from the flooding was extremely dirtyand unhealthy.Mosquitoes
became intolerable(and while cleaning up my yard Ideveloped a Staphylococcus infection
from scratching a bite).It’shard to believe that the Property could be developed with the
potentialforthese types of conditions.
Other floods
One nightIwoke up to see thatthe whole neighborhood was flooded and most neighbors had
mud in theirhouses and, no rain had fallen.Obviously the water had traveled down hilland
quicklyfilledup the neighborhood.
During and afterthe Japanese Tsunami the floodcame infrom the ocean side.My propertywas
likean islandbut uphillsuch as on Kehei Road infrom of Longs Drug Store,there were fishleft
on the road as the tides went in and out from the Waiahule and the Waipuilani creeks on both
sides.Again, the Property flooded.The strange currentsin the ocean continued for at leasttwo
or three months
Ocean Impact
Ispent hundreds of hours inthe ocean water offthe WaipuilaniBeach Park (and continueto do
so).Most days Iwalked along the shore inthe area.Aftereven minor flooding(measurable
rainfall),the ocean would become brown and fullof debris. Iwitnessed the ocean water
becoming more cloudy and, the degradation of the coral,not justoffof Waipuilani but also along
the whole Kihei coastal waters.
B.South Maui Flood
In 2017 we sold the property on Eva Place and moved to South Maui as the flood insurance
was going as high as $6,000 by the next year so. We liveon a gullywhich historicallystayed dry
except foronce every several years. On December 4, 2021, we experienced a flashflood. We
are stillcleaning up and repairingthe property.The flood water rushed likea riverfrom Kula,
through our neighborhood with an approximately 8 foot high wall of water, as witnessed by
neighbors, tunneled through our garage and out the back. Contributing to the flashflood was the
deep gullythatoverflowed and the streetwater ran as a river.Eventuallythe water ended up in
the Ocean. We, as many of our neighbors up and downhillfrom us are stillcleaning and
repairingfrom the flashflood sixmonths laterand most of us did not have flood insurance.
OPPOSITION TO MORE DEVELOPMENT ALONG AND NEAR THE KIHEI COSTAL AREAS
Ifthe developers are allowed to go through with plans to buildaffordablehousing on the
WaipuilaniProperty,not only willthe propertycause furtherfloodingto the Waipuilani
neighborhood but the tenants willhave to contend with the same type of floodingthathas been
experienced inthe neighborhood through the years. Like the neighboring resortssuch as Maui
Sunset, the sump pumps and other means drain the floodingintothe neighboring areas, and the
proposed development would have to includethistype of floodalleviation.Historically,according
to my neighbors on Eva Place, whose familieshave livedin the area for generations, the area
changed from an estuary type naturalcoastlineto what the Kihei coastlineistoday.
We must stop any more development along the Kiheicoastlineand uphil.We must findways for
the waters to spread out instead of making narrow rushing dangerous riversthattraveldown to
the ocean.
Affordablehousing inallof Hawaii isone ofthe top major issues to be dealtwith but developing
an acre and a halfof one of the one of the only remaining estuary area in Kiheiwillcause more
problems than itwillsolve.This development willnot solvethe affordablehousing issue.The
proposed development willonly make existingissues worse and the property isnot a practical
area in which humans can live.
Thank you foryour consideration
H. Dale Allen-Alioto,retiredHI DOE teacher and Sierra Club member or 35 years, and property
owner
P. S. (Also,isthe development under the guise of “affordablehousing” willbe profitableto the
developers without trulyhelping those who need affordablehousing and what isgoing to stop
the development in question from raisingthe rentfrom whatever isconsidered affordablehigher
and priceout the people who need affordablehousing? Who isreallygoing to profitifthis
development goes through?)
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
KeithAmemiya <keith.amemiya@gmai!.com>
Friday,July15,2022 11:51AM
County Clerk
Maui County BillNo. 21
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom keith.amemiya@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
ChairLee and FellowMaui County CouncilMembers:
My name isKeithAmemiya, former Hawaii High School AthleticAssociationExecutiveDirector,and I'mtestifyingin
opposition to BillNo. 21.
While protectingNative Hawaiian seabirdsiscertainlyimportant, there'ssimply not enough information and basisto
substantiatethe bill'spassage atthistime.
Indeed, I'veattended many Maui InterscholasticLeague outdoor nighttime athleticevents and haven't been made
aware of any danger to seabirdscaused by the lighting.
Additionally,longtime MIL administrators,coaches,former players,parents,and fans are similarlyunaware of such
dangers.
The downside of banning nighttimegames with outdoor lightingare simply too great to allow thisbillto pass.
Further,based upon past historyand the many competing State and County needs, even ifthe MIL isprovided time
to change the lightingat the numerous athleticfacilitiesin question, the likelihoodof the necessary funding being
provided and installationbeing made ina timelymanner isuncertainat best.
In sum, BillNo. 21 may have the best of intentionsforseabirds,but our youth willsuffergreatlyIfit'spassed.
Therefore,Irespectfullyrequestthatthe Councilvote againstBillNo. 21's passage.
Mahalo foryour time and consideration.
OO
;oQ-nSincerely, mC-n
O
KeithAmemiya m<
O <o 3
mm-<
Tim
a
cn
1
20 SUkio!a Sireei
\fakawao. HI ‘J676^
mS) 359-0777 cellular
hruce32go'mahoo.com
3mce Anderson
July 18,2022
Chair Lee and Maui Countv Council Members:
My name isBruce Anderson,as fomier Maui High School Principal,
and sportsfan,Iwould liketosubmitmy writtentestimonyinoppositionto
BillNo. 21. The billseems tobe premature. Our youth and theactivities
thatsupportthem and thesafetyof nativeseabirdsarecertainlyimportant
considerations that affect us all. How can we work togetherforthebenefit
ofalH
Sportingeventsdo notsupportonly theactiveathleticparticipants.
Sportingand othereventsprovidetheschoolcommunity an opportunityto
developan identityand senseof belonging.The team,theband,therobotics
team,and otheractivitieshelptoprovidethissenseof placeand belonging.
To limitany of theseactivitieshas thepotentialtoaffectthisimportant
fabricof our community. Other testifiershave pointedout thattheywere
not aware of any seabirdincidentsoccuning atoutdoornighttimesporting
events.
Istronglybelievethattheissueisnot "No Can butHOW CAN? How
can we work togetherto crafta solutiontothisimportantissue.
Thank you forallowingme to submitthistestimony.
Sincerely,
Bruce Anderson,
RetiredPrincipal
Maui High School
Count^^lerk
Andrew <andreww300@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 5;24 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipullani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom andreww300@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Andrew
OO
c;5
73
m
o50"im mVI-<
O <o “n
r* mm
OVI
1
County Clerk
JoelAngyal <joel.angyal@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:11 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjoel.angyal@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Get Outlook for iOS
3
0-T1
C-n 73
m
o
-< Kn moo
3En <
::gx
m9?
Do
o
1
Count^£let^ f^tiCL/VhU
29UJUiIDebbie Arakaki <debbie@debbiearakaki.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 1:21PM
County Clerk
RejectBill107, CD1 (2022)
From:
Sent:
PW ? 10To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom debbie@debbiearakaki.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee and Members,
Iam a licensedrelatorand do not supportBill107,CDl (2022),initscurrentform. In tryingtobuild
homes on Maui forprimary or rentals,itisso difficultto getanythingdone. From permittingdelays,to
increasesinmaterialand laborcostand regulatoryred-tape,ibsnot easy tobuildhomes on Maui, much less
workforcehomes. Beinginrealestate,Iknow thattherearenot a lotofhomes availablebelow $1M, and by
loweringtheaffordablehousingsalespricesasproposedwillfurtlierreduce thenumber ofhomes and widen
the gap betH^eenaffordableand market homes. Pleaseleavethesalespricesin theircurrentform. Insteadof
loweringtheaffordablehousingsalespricespleaseconsidersubsidizingtheindividualbuyers who need the
help or have theCounty pay forinfrastructureand initiatezoning changes.Provide incentives,not
disincentives.
From firsthand experience,Iam tryingtodo therightthingby buildingmore ADU and rentalhomes on our
properties,and yetIfinditso difficulttonavigatethevariousrulesthatarecounterproductivetothe
process.
The gap fortheabilityofour childrentobe independantand own theirown homes grows wider and wider
with billssuch asthisone. PleaserejectthisBill107 as itiswritten.Go back to the drawing board on how to
give homeowners incentivestobuild theirADU, the developerstocreatemore affordablehousing projects,
revisitour zoning rulesand regulationstoallowmore flexibilityforcreativehousingideas.
Mahalo,
Debbie Arakaki
COMPASS ]FoundingBroker
808-283-7214
1
H.S.
FIKII A WIIJ»I.IFK
UnitedStatesDepartmentoftheInterioRECf
ZiHJULIkFISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
Pacific Islands Fish and Wildlife Office
300 Ala Moana Boulevard, Room 3-122
Honolulu, Hawaii 96850 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
In Reply Refer To:
File #; 2022-0063957 July 15,2022
Keola Whittaker
Deputy CoiporationCounsel
County of Maui
200 High Street,3rd Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Recommended Avoidance and Minimization
Measures forLightingEffectstoFederallyListedSpecies
Subject:
Dear Keola Whittaker:
Thank you forreachingouttous and requestinginformationon how Maui County can avoidand
minimize adverseeffectsto federallylistedHawaiian seabirdsand seaturtlesfrom artificial
lighting.We appreciateyour coordinationwith our officeand acknowledge thework you have
done tomodify County lightingthrougha recentlyupdatedMaui County Ordinancetoavoid
impacts to federallylistedHawaiian seabirdsand seaturtlesfrom lighting.
We offerthefollowingrecommended measures to avoidand minimize takeof Hawaiian seabirds
and sea turtles.Our comments and thisletterare prepared under theauthorityof,and in
accordance with,provisionsof the Endangered SpeciesAct of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 etseq.)as
amended (ESA).
Avoidance and Minimization Measures for the Endangered Hawaiian petrel{Pterodroma
sandwichemis)^ Threatened Newell’s shearwater {Piiffiniisaiiricularisnewelli)^and
Endangered Hawai‘i DistinctPopulation Segment of the band-rumped storm-petrel
{Oceanodroma castro)(Hawaiian seabirds):
Hawaiian seabirdsmay traversethe projectarea atnightduringthebreeding,nestingand
fledgingseasons(March 1 to December 15).Outdoor lightingcould resultinseabird
disorientation,fallout,and injmy or mortality.Seabirdsareattractedtolightsand aftercircling
the lightstheymay become exhaustedand collidewithnearbywires,buildings,or other
structuresor they may land on the ground.Downed seabirdsaresubjecttoincreasedmortality
PACIFIC REGION 1
Idaho, Oregon*, Washington,
American Samoa. Guam. Hawapi. northern Mariana islands
●PARTIAL
fCeola Whittaker 2r 1
dueJocollisionvvit^hautomobiles,stai-vation,andpredationby dogs,cats,andotherpredators.
Pledging seabirdstraversingtheprojectareabetween September 15 and December 15,in their
firstflightsfrom theirmountain neststo the sea,are particularlyvulnerableto lightattraction.
To avoid,and minimize adverse effectsand take of Hawaiian seabirdswe recommend
implementing the followinggeneralmeasures:
● Fullyshieldalloutdoor lightsso the bulb can only be seen from below.
● Install automatic motion sensor switches and controls on alloutdoor lightsor turnoff
lightswhen human activityisnot occurringinthe lightedarea.
● Avoid nighttimelighting,includingnighttimeconstniction,duringtheseabirdfledging
season,September 15 tlu'oughDecember 15.
it
There isresearchcurrentlybeing conducted thatisevaluatingthephysiologicalresponseof
Hawaiian seabirdstodifferentlightingcharacteristics.We expect thattliisresearchwilloffer
new insightsintohow Hawaiian seabirdsdiscernlightand could be used inlighting
modificationsto avoid causing seabirdfalloutin the future.Untilthe resultsof thisresearchare
available,our recommendations focus on effortsto reduce overalllightsand shieldalloutdoor
lights
Threatened (Central North PacificDPS) Green sea turtles{Chelonia mydas) and
Endangered Hawksbill sea turtle{Eretmochelys imbricata)(collectivelyreferred to as sea
turtles):Green sea turtlesmay neston any sandy beach area in the PacificIslands.Hawksbill
sea turtlesexhibita wide tolerancefornestingsubstrate(rangingfrom sandy beach to crushed
coral)with neststypicallyplacedunder vegetation.Both speciesexhibitstrongnestingsite
fidelity.Nestingoccurson beachesfrom May throughSeptember,peaking inJune and July,with
hatchlingsemerging throughNovember and December. We expectthatallsandy beaches may
potentiallyprovidenestingand/orbaskinghabitatforgreenseaturtlesand thatunlessspecific
modificationshave occurredtoalterlighting,we assume thatalllightingthatisvisiblefrom a
beach environmenthas thepotentialtoaffectseaturtlenestingand hatchlingemergence.
Optimal sea tuitlcnestinghabitatisa dark beach freeof barriersthatrestrictsea turtle
movement. Nesting turtlesmay be deterredfrom approachingor layingsuccessfulnestson
lightedor disturbedbeaches.They may become disorientedby artificiallighting,leadingto
exhaustionand placement of a nestinan inappropriatelocation(suchasator below thehightide
line).Hatchlingsthatemerge from nestsmay alsobe disorientedby artificiallighting.Inland
areasvisiblefrom thebeach shouldbe sufficientlydark to allow forsuccessfulnavigationby
hatchlingstothe ocean.
To avoid and minimize projectimpacts to sea turtlesfrom lightingwe recommend incorporating
the followingapplicablemeasures intoyour projectdescription:
● Avoid nighttimelighting,includingnighttimeconstructionwork, during the nestingand
hatchingseason(May to December).
● Minimize theuse of lightingon or nearbeaches and shieldallproject-relatedlightsso the
lightisnot visiblefrom any beach,
o Iflightscan’tbe fullyshieldedor ifheadlightsmust be used,fullyenclosethe
lightsourcewith lightfilteringtapeor filters.
Keola Whittaker 3
● Incorporatedesignmeasures intotheconstructionor operationof buildingsadjacentto
the beach to reduce ambient outdoor lightingsuch as;
o tintingor usingautomaticwindow shades forexteriorwindows thatfacethe
beach;
o reducingtheheightof exteriorlightingtobelow 3 feetand pointeddownward or
away from the beach; and
o minimize lightintensityto thelowestlevelfeasibleand,when possible,include
timers and motion sensors.
Conclusion
We look forward to continued coordinationwith you in advance of and throughout theupcoming
seabirdfledgingand sea turtlenestingseasons.Our hope isthatimplementationof these
measures willeffectivelyavoid take of listedHawaiian seabirdsand seaturtles.We requestthat
you continueto keep us apprisedas avoidanceand minimizationmeasuresareimplemented.
While we anticipatethe identifiedavoidanceand minimizationmeasures willreducethe
likelihoodof lightingimpactsto listedseabirdsand seaturtles,whethertakecan be fullyavoided
can only be determinedthrough robustmonitoring,reporting,and adaptivemanagement. Iftake
cannot be fullyavoided,Maui County should develop a HabitatConservationPlanand applyfor
an IncidentalTake Permit pursuantto Section10 of theESA. Additionally,we recommend
working with theHawaiT Divisionof Forestryand WildliferegardingcompliancewiththeState
of Hawai‘i Endangered SpeciesLaw 195-D. IfMaui County pursuesdevelopmentofa Habitat
ConservationPlan,we encourage working closelywith the Serviceand the Statetoensureour
requiredissuancecriteriaaremet. The HabitatConservationPlanninghandbook providesmore
detail on the content of a Habitat Conservation Plan and can be found onlineatthefollowing
website: https://www.fws.gov/sites/default/Tiles/docuiTients/hab itai-conservation-planning-
handbook-entirc.pdf
Ifyou have any questionsregardingthisresponse,pleasecontactLindsyAsman, IslandTeam
Manager forHawaii Islandand Maui Nui (808-348-3394 or lindsy_asman@fws.gov).
Sincerely,
Digitallysigned by LINDSY
ASMAN
Date: 2022.07.15 15:31:07
-lO'OO'
LINDSY
ASMAN
IslandTeam Manager
Hawaii Island and Maui Nui
Pacific Islands Fish and Wildlife Office
Count^CleiJ<
From:
Sent:
De Austin<dezireenaustin@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 10:47AM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill21 and the 22-61 Waipulani
RECEIVED
2122JUL 15 PH 12:35
I OFFICE OF THEI Youdon'toftengetemailfromdezireenaustin@gmail.com.LearnwhvthisisimportantCOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
Aloha, Council Members and Honorable Chair AliceLee,
Iam infullsupport for Bill21, the lightingregulationto protect our seabirds.
Allthe concerns of thisadministrationhave alreadybeen addressed. There isno reason to not go forv/ard.
The interestinthe costof lightreplacement or supply are only mongering fear.These same interestswere the battle
ground on which the bans on plasticbags and disposablecontainers were stillpassed, and the mineral based
sunscreen made itthrough. And look:no businesses failedbecause they were unable to findalternativesuppliesfor
these products.
Ifthe BigIslandcan be successful,we should followtheirlead.
The failureof thisadministrationto supportthisbill,and instead,put up obstacles,isconsistentwith itshistoryof no
concern forour islandenvironment and our relationshipwith it.This administrationdrove thiscounty to spend a
huge amount of money to defend itselfagainstan actualfederal/ow when itcame to the impact of the injection
wellsinLahaina. Any administrationwhich has littleregard forthe environment should not be leadingan island
government.
Iam fullyagainstthe Waipulani housing development. It'sina flood zone. This isagain an environmental issue.We
are puttingaffordablehousing forour workforce indangerous areas.Maui County has to rethinkitspracticeof
enticingdevelopersto pay foraffordablehousing with the agreement to allow "market-rate"homes to be builtas
well.Thisisn'tworking.
Maui County should investinitsown development foraffordablehousing. Maui County should look intofederal
grants,and possiblyother donation sources.We have had sorelyneeded senior housing builtand paid for
charitableorganizations.Habitatfor Humanities and CatholicCharitiesare not the solution,however. Maui County
should budget fora housingfund which willprovide20-30 homes per year,for homes which cannot be resoldat
"market-rate"at a laterdate.Thisisto preventprofiteersand for-profitdevelopers purchasingthese homes.
These homes should be soldon a lotterysystem,with preferenceforfamilieswho have been on-isiandforat least
fiveyears,and whose annual income fallsbelow at or the poverty levelsfor Hawaii.
Thank you forreadingmy testimony.
Respectfully,
Dezireen Austin
1
County Clerk RPr:Pi\/Fn
ChrisBakeman <funnychrisb@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:24 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingatHale OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent: Z8Z2JUL 1^1 PM ^' 25
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom funnychrisb@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
1
Countj^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Traci Bean <TraciB@BetterMauiVIP.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 7:16 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom tracib@bettermauivip.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalol
Mahalo,
TraciMarieBean®
R(S)76614
54 Maui Lani Pkwy
Suite 2030
Wailuku, Hi 96793
808-280-1690
OQ
73Oti
C*TI m
o
m-<
Oo <-n
mrn-4 9? Qo7:rn
®Search MauiPropertieshere:
MauiRE4U.com
ai
© 2017 BetterHomes and Gardens Real EstateAdvantage RealtyValleyIsle.BetterHomes and Gardens® isa registered
trademark of Meredith Corporation licensedto BetterHomes and Gardens Real EstateLLC. Equal Opportunity Company.
Equal Housing Opportunity.An Independently Owned and Operated Franchise.BetterHomes and Gardens Real Estate
Advantage RealtyValley Isleisan affiliateof BetterHomes and Gardens Real Estate Advantage Realty.
NOTICE: The information contained inthismessage isproprietaryand/or confidentialand may be privileged.Ifyou are
not the intended recipientof thiscommunication, you are hereby notifiedto:(i)deletethe message and ailcopies;(ii)
do not disclose,distributeor use the message inany manner; and (iii)notifythe sender immediately.
1
Count^^leHc
From:
Sent:
Cas Beaumont <healwithmushrooms@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 10:41AM
County Clerk
Insupport of the CharterAmendment to createa Water Authority.
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom healwithmushrooms@gmail.com. Learn why thisIsimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha!
Pleaseknow water islife.Thisisforallgenerations.Allpeople. Allbeings.Clean water isour birthright.
The citizensof Maui need the opportunityto vote on the creationof a water authoritysooner than later!
We need a water authorityto protectMaui's water resources and properlymanage them forthe benefitof present
and futuregenerations.
Sincerely,
Cassandra Beaumont
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
GloriaBennett <gb921900@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:52AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don'toften get email from gb921900@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
I have been a resident of Hawaii Maui since 1998.1 have been working on Maui for a hospice company, and am now
lookingintobuying a home which ismy dream. With housing pricesat a alltime high workforce housing isthe only route
Iam able to purchase a home. My co- worker who was born and raisedon Maui had to recentlymove to the mainland
because she could not affordhousing here and rentalswere not infavorof young children.
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from Mail for Windows
OO
O-n
mcii
o
*im m\jy
GO S
mm
ao
VI
1
Count^CleH<
Jude Bernard <jude@thebrooklynbank.com>
Friday,July15,2022 2:34AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom jude@thebrookiYnbank.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Be betterthan yesterday...butnot as good as tomorrow.'
Jude Jean Paul Bernard
917-309-4571
0”n
c 'Tt
"im
73
m
o
mVI-<
Oo -n
m
ao
1
Count^CIei^
mi JUL 14 AH & 17
From:
Sent:
Bobbie Best <bestb002@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 8:14 AM
County Clerk
1support Bill21 (CD1 FD1)!
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha e County CouncilMembers!
My name is Bobbie Best
in order to protectour dark nightskiesforour human health,astronomy and our nativewildlife.We trulyappreciate
your work on thisand lookforward to your vote of support.
Mahalo nui loa!
,and Ifullysupport Bill21 (CDl FDl) that addresses harmful outdoor lighting
Mahalo
Bobbie
280 Flauoli
Wailuku
808-242-9119
Cell 808-359-1554
1
Count^£|erk
RickBickford<rickbickford@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 11:00AM
County Clerk
Water Authorityon Maui
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from rickbickford@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
The citizensof Maui need the opportunityto vote on establishinga water authority.
This isneeded to protectMaui's water resourcesand to properlymanage them forthe benefitof the people living
here both now and forfuturegenerationsMy Testimony:
Aloha,thisisJames Bickfordfrom Hoolawa valleyon the north shore of Maui. Since 1984 we have had a fruitand
flower farm along the Hana sideof Hoolawa stream. For years EMI controlledthe water in Hoolawa.
They took allthe water inthe stream at the lower ditchat the bridge above our property.When Itrained hard the
riveroverflowed the ditch.This changes the qualityand alllifealong the stream.Thisabsolutelydoes not work for
farmers who relyon the water during dry weather and don't need water when itrainshard and the ditchoverflows.
Iam testifyingto support the charteramendment to createa Water Authorityforthe county of Maui.
Please no more researchisnecessaryto recognizethe need to have a say inour water supply.The alternativeisto
give the controlto a foreigncorporation where the bottom lineisprofitand not the citizensof Maui.
There can be changes and improvements inthe futureThank you forconsideringmy testimonyJames Bickford
Sent from my iPhone
1
West Maui Land Company, Inc.U^UNIUPOKO - Olowalu - Kauaula - Kahoma - Makiu^
305 E. Wakea, Suite 100
Kahului, Maui, Hawaii 96732
Phone; (808) 877-4202
Fax: (808) 877-9409
July 14,2022
Chair Alice Lee & Members
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
3oo
O-n
C’n
“im
7^
m
oViae-mailtocounty.clerk@mauicounty.iis m-< vn
Oo <■nRe: Committee Report No. 22-62
FirstReading of Bill107,CDl (2022) m<??
xn
Oo
u;
Aloha Chair Lee,
I am writingon behalfof West Maui Land Company, and we do not supportBill107,
CDl (2022) initscurrentform. Reducing the salespriceswithouta back-stopwilldiscourage
new projectsand potentiallykillentitledaffordableprojects,includingan 80 unit100%
affordableprojectIam working on.With existingconditionsand salesprices,thisproject(and
possiblyothers),arealreadyteeteringon the edge of infeasibility.Cuttingsalespriceswould be a
nailin the coffin.Without a reasonable rateof return,builderswillbe unable to obtainfinancing,
or not even tryifthe projectisshowing a loss.
As a projectmanager forWest Maui Land Company, Ihave completedtwo 100% workforce
projectsand have a 100% affordable80 unitprojectinthe permittingprocess.I am familiarwith
thechallengesworkforcehousingprojectsfacefrom theentitlementprocesstopermitting,
infrastructure,constructionof the homes to salesthattakeyearsto gettothe finishline.
Conditionscan change dramaticallyas we have allseen inthepastfew yearswith supplychain
issues,materialcostsskyrocketingand interestratesrising,and adoptionof new standardsfor
construction.The 20IH and 2.97processesmay be consideredfasttrack,but afterthatthereis
no ‘fasttrack’processforthesubdivisionand permittingof affordableprojects,even withthe
‘pinkslip’.For example,on my 80-unitproject:
● 7 Vi MONTHS forre-approvalofplansforan off-sitemain waterlineextensioninan
existingroadway. Re-approvalprocessincludedagenciesrequestsforadditionalwork
that added thousands to the construction costs and consultantfees.This $600,000 main
county waterlineextensionisbeing funded on the backs of theworkforcehomes inthis
project.
● 7 MONTHS for comments from wastewater on the on-site. Comments includeda request
fortheplanstobe redrawn ata differentscalewhich requiredtwo weeks of engineering
July 14,2022
Chair Alice Lee & Members
Committee Report No. 22-62;FirstReading of Bill107,CDl (2022)
Page 2 of 2
time,and includeda requestto concreteencase lateralsthatdo not need to be encased
under thecode,addinga costof more than$50,000to theproject.
0 8 MONTHS and stillno comments from PublicWorks.
> ’ Thisisjustthetipoftheicebergofthechallengesand unknowns a projectfaces.Ittakestenacity
and capitalto buildaffordablehomes on Maui, and it’sa choicenot an obligation.Under the
currentpriceguidelinesand conditions,buildersarenot knocking down the door tobuild
affordablehomes.We havea supplyissue.Loweringthe salespriceswillmake projects
a infeasibletobuild,resultinginfewtono homes beingbuiltintheaffordablerangesand causing
existinghome pricesto continuerise.
In 2007, County Council had similarconcernsand doubled the affordabilityrequirementfrom
25% to 50%. This,coupled with poor market conditions,effectivelydestroyedtheworkforce
housing market until2014, when a new councilrevertedthe requirementback to 25%. Many of
you may not recallthis,but we can stilllearnfrom pastactions:By legislatinga higher
percentage,or as proposed today,loweringprices,does not encourage new inventory,and may
have theexactoppositeeffect.
Studiesafterstudieson Maui’s housing challengeshave been paid forby thecounty over the
years.Pleasefollowtherecommendations Policy8,Priority3 of theMaui County
Comprehensive Affordablehousing Plan and considersubsidizingthe individualbuyersand
leavingtheaffordablehousingsalespricesintheircurrentform. The County could encourage
housingby providingthenecessarypublicinfrastructureimprovements and initiatingzoning
changes in areasthatmake sense forhomes. We need alltypesof housing fora broad range of
income groups,professionsand lifestages.Let’swork togetherto findsolutionsforMaui’s
families.
Mahalo forconsideringour testimony.I can be reachedat 808-877-4202.
Sincerely,
Heidi Bigelow
ProjectManager
Count^^JeH<
From:
Sent:
JuliaBissen<juliabissen@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 4:54 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from juliabissen@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalol
Sent from my iPhone 3ooOti rv«»
C*T1
m
O-< V/l moo ●n
<m
xm
m
DVI
'O
1
County Clerk
RlIGCIVgP
JUL 13 PH 4=15
From:
Sent:
NicholasBlum <nicholas.blum@gmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 3:35 PM
County Clerk
InSupport of Bill21
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget email from nicholas.blum@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
To Whom ItMay Concern,
My name isNicholas Blum, and Iam a Hawaii resident livingon Oahu. Iam greatlyin support of Maui Bill21 relatingto
protectingseabirdsfrom outdoor lighting.Ioftentraveland swim in Maui, and thisbillwillkeep skiesdark for human
health,astronomy and the protectionof our nativewildlife(particularlyseabirdsand sea turtles),allthe while taking
human safetyintoaccount.
With gratitude,
Nicholas Blum
1
Count^Cerk
Dan Bolton <dan@boltoninc.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:37 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom dan@boltoninc.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Get Outlook for iOS
20O "n
c*n 73
m
O-c moo
S <m-H
XX
:k m
m
o
1
Countj^^CJerk
From:
Sent:
Steven B <steviebluehi@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 9:36 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
Noah and DadJPG
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom steviebluehi@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
I'ma registeredvoterand longterm Maui resident.
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Steven Bronstein
steviebluehi@gmail.com
808-357-1525
oo
0"n 73
^ m
O
m■<
Oo Tl
m<t973X
Tsm ao
w
1
Count^^Clet2<
Chris Bruce <outlook_D617A9AFBD4AFE1B@outlook.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:56AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom outlook_d617a9afbd4afelb@outlook.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from Mail for Windows
oo
O 7)CTl m
O"Im vn m
o2 gg mm-H
xm ao
●o
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
mi JUL I PH h 22From:
Sent:
Danielle<danielle.bruce97@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:58 PM
CountyClerk OPPICE OF THE-We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale WaipuilanK|j|ig-pYCLERK
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom danielle.bruce97@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
1
Count^Clet^ R h- {
ini
From:
Sent:
GloriaBruce <gloriajbruce29@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:39 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingatH^eA/i/apjSarQF THE
COUNTY CLERK
miM. m PH I? 50
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom gloriajbruce29@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
1
CountyCleHt
From:
Sent:
NatalieBruce <nataliebrucey@gmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 9:56 PM
County Clerk
Isupport Resolution22-61:workforce housing at HaleWaipuilani.
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom nataliebrucey@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council member,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing. Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support
housing forlocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo,
Natalie Bruce
Everymoment isa freshbeginning....O NatalieBruce
www.nataliebrucemakeup.com
noO-n
C"n
“jm
m
O
-< ■*= moo
s <m
mm -H
m
CO
oo
1
Count^£lerk
Robert Bruce <robertbruce358@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:55 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom robertbruce358(5)yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Pleasevote in
favorof Resolution22-61.Support housing forlocalfamiliesand
not market housing foroffshorebuyers.Mahalo!
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
2^O "n
CTl 73
m
o’dm●< moo
3 <T»
mw
a7; m
w
1
Count^£leHc RPr:F-~iVFn
ScottV, Bruce <scottb@silverseasyachts.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:39 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingatHaleWiipiiBaQf"THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent: mi JUL 14 PH 12^50
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom scottb@silverseasyachts.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
I'm writingto you to discussMaui's need foraffordablehousing localfamilies.Iwanted to tellyou that Iam insupport
affordablehousingat Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Best regards,
Scott Bruce
Newport Beach
949 678-5514
www.SilverSeasYachts.com
ScottB@silverseasvachts.com
1
Count^^leH<
From:
Sent:
TerryBruce <tbruce@elevationchurch.org>
Friday,July15,2022 5:52 AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom tbruce@elevationchurch.org.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Council member, Maui needs homes for localfamilies,We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
vO
73c *n
m
OV/l moo--n
m-i
<
m9?
oo
This communication may contain privilegedand/or confidentialinformation.Ifyou are not the intended recipientof this
message, any reading,distribution,copying, or other use isprohibited.Ifreceived in error,you should delete and
destroy the message and kindlynotifythe sender by replye-mail.Unless expresslyindicatedherein,thiscommunication
isnot intended to be, nor shallitbe deemed, an agreement or electronicsignature.Itisunderstood that opinions or
conclusionsthatdo not relateto the officialpurpose of ElevationChurch are neithergiven nor endorsed by Elevation
Church. Thank you.
1
Count^£Iei^ RF'^RiVniP
M Mm Pd If:29From:
Sent:
Robert Bryan <rbryanagent@yahoo.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 4:24 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale WaipuiSHrFiGEOF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom rbryanagent@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalol
Robert D Bryan
Realtor RS-72591
808 397-7234
Coldwell Banker IslandPropertiesKapalua
Bobbykapalua@gmail.com
700 Office Road Lahaina. HI 96761
0™
Website: rbrvan.islandproperties.com
1
County Clerk
REUHIVED
From:
Sent:
JustinCantere <justintimecantere@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:44 PM
County Clerk
The Hale Waipu'ilaniHousing Development testimony
mu\l 1^ PH I? 50To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfromjustintimecantere@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
Ihereby testifythatIoppose the proposed Hale Waipu'ilaniHousing Development.
This proposed plan isa safetyhazard due to itslocation,and italso willnot help Maui’s need for
housing forlocalresidents(as 50% or more of the housing could be purchased by outsiders).
Mahalo
Justin Cantere
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
JacquelineCarroll<jacquellnemakena808@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5:40 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom jacquelinemakena808@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone OQ
0“n
C*T|
73
m
oH m-< mV/t
Oo <Ti 3B
mm -4
a
1
County Clerk
Christina<cksmb99@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:54 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom cksmb99@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
oo
73O-n
m
2^ o
m
oo <-o"n ae
mm
aI > ●N
KjJ
1
received
JtIL15 Wl 7:24
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
SANANDA K. BAZ
Managing Director
COUNTY OF MAUI
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
July 14, 2022
Honorable Michael P. Victorino, Mayor
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
Mayor DateFor Transmittal to:
Honorable Kelly Takaya King, Chair
Climate Action, Resilience, and Environment Committee
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair King,
SUBJECT: BILL 21 CDl, FDl (2022), SEABIRD AND BIODIVERSITY
PROTECTION (PAF 22-164)
At the Council meeting of July 1, 2022, the Energy Commissioner served as
a resource on behalf of the Mayor’s administration and the Officeof Climate Change,
Resiliency, and Sustainability (CCRS) on the firstreading of Bill 21, CDl, FDl
(2022), entitled “A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING FOR PROTECTION OF
SEABIRDS.”
As stated in testimony provided at the Council meeting, we support protecting
wildlife and minimizing light pollution in Maui County, however, our
recommendation is to send Bill 21 back to Committee. This would allow for
discussion to address the narrow specificationof maximum 2% blue lightcontent,
the commercial availabilityand associated warranties of lightingfixturesthat meet
such a specification,and the realisticapplication and enforcement of Bill 21 for
commercial and residential use. We have conferred with Hawaii County and they
confirmed that their outdoor lighting specificationonly applies to commercial street
lighting and parking lot lighting.They have also confirmed that they have faced
issues with difficultyin sourcing commercially available lighting that meets the 2%
blue lightspecificationand offersa reasonable warranty that willcover replacement
of lightingifitfailsas a result of electricityfluctuations from the electricalgrid.We
recommend that Bill 21 include a hardship exemption that would allow for all
G'r
JuXy,lA,-2Q22 m
●Page 2 "
^ -iO
Counter Departments to be exempt from the maximum 2% blue light content
specificationif a commercially available lighting option is not available or if a
commercially available option does not offerindustry standard warranty terms.
Should you have any questions or requirefurtherclarification,please contact
me at ext. 8250 or the Energy Commissioner, Alex deRoodc at ext. 7203.
Sincerely,
Allison Cleghom
Environmental Coordinator
Office of Climate Change, Resiliency,and
Sustainability
Count^£lerJ<
From:
Sent:
ChristianK.Balagso
Friday,July15,2022 8:59AM
County Clerk
FW: Bill21
RE CE/'v'EOTo;
IS
Offiq£ qp
COUNTY
Subject:
theWritten testimony submitted for Bill21.
clerk
From: Jonathan Conrad <10015690@kl2.hi.us> On Behalf Of Jonathan Conrad
Sent: Friday,July15, 2022 8:56 AM
To: ChristianK.Balagso<Christian.Balagso(S)mauicounty.us>
Subject: Re: Bill21
Mahalo forhearing my testimony against bill21.
The MIL isconcerned with the followingissues thatwillaffectthe 4-5000
student athletesas well as the many students, parents and supporters
from the 13 differentschools that make up the Maul Interscholastic
League. Sports highlyimpacted willbe football,cheer, girlsand boys
soccer, swimming and diving,baseball, softball,track and field,tennis
and water polo but the effectswillbe feltby alldisciplines.
As a former CertifiedAthleticTrainer of 23 yeas at Lahainaluna the health
and safetyof our student athletesIsand always be my primary focus. If
thisbillpasses itwillput Lahainaluna High School’s,as well as many MIL
athletes in an unsafe environment for practices and games. The State of
Hawaii High School AthleticAssociation has a Heat Acclimatizationand
Practice Policythatprotectsour student athlete.Itisthe duty of the
school athleticadministrators, athletictrainers,and athleticstaffto follow
these guidelines.Exertionalheat stroke isthe second leading cause of
death insports aftercardiac conditions,according to the National Center
forCatastrophic Sorts InjuryResearch, 2009. Inthe past 11 years, from
the time thisstudy was done, we have allwitnessed the increase of
temperature here on Maui.
We use wet bulb globalthermometer which isa device that monitors
temperature, wet bulb global temperature, relativehumidity,and wind
speed. The reading that device gives us isimputed intoa chartthattells
us how long practicecan be as well as how many water breaks are
mandated and what equipment needs to come off.Abiding to thispolicy
to keep our athletessafe, we have been inthe situationhere at
Lahainaluna to startour practices latein the afternoon and intothe
evening when itiscooler.
Ifwe were put intothe positionto play day games in Lahaina we would be
not only be puttingour student athletesat risk,we would also be puttinga
large portionof our student body and community supporters injeopardy
of contractingheat relatedinjuriesby justbeing present at the games.
We are asking thatthe Billbe sent back to committee so that these
concerns can be addressed and thatthere isa solidplan that has been
developed and in place to help ensure that our student-athletes,student
body, familiesand community supporters inthe MIL do not lose out
again. We are tryingto speak and represent the many student-athletes
and stakeholders who have gone through so much with the shutdown of
seasons and the restrictionsthat continue to be in place with high school
sports. We are concerned thatthisbillmay/will be an additionalburden
and affectour childrenand our community’s social-emotionalrecovery in
very negative ways at a criticaltime where they are juststartingto see
things get better.
Jonathan Conrad
Athletic Director
Lahainaluna High School
ionathan.conrad@kl2.hi.us
808-318-0445
On Jul15, 2022, at 8:27 AM, ChristianK. Balagso <Christian.Balagsof5)mauicountv.us> wrote:
No, itdoes not need to be 24 hours prior.Ican send itinforyou or you can send itdirectlyto the
County Clerk'sofficeat countv.clerkOmauicountv.us. Let me know what you would prefer.
From: Jonathan Conrad <10015690(5)kl2.hi.us> On Behalf Of Jonathan Conrad
Sent: Friday,July15, 2022 8:22 AM
To: ChristianK. Balagso <Christian.Balagso(5)mauicountv.us>
Subject: Re: Bill21
Ithink itneeds to be in 24 hours prior.That was more addressed to you anyway. IfIsend you
something now would you be able to send itin?
Jonathan Conrad
Athletic Director
Lahainaluna High School
ionathan.conrad@kl2.hi.us
808-318-0445
On Jul15, 2022, at 8:02 AM, ChristianK. Balagso
<Chnstian.Balagso@mauicountv.us> wrote:
Aloha Jon,
2
Yes, 1do work inTamara Paitin'soffice.Would you likeme to forward thisemailto
the county clerkto submit as writtentestimony?
From: Jonathan Conrad <ionathan.conrad(5)kl2.hi.us>
Sent: Thursday, July14, 2022 5:20 PM
To: ChristianK. Balagso<Christian.Balagso(a)mauicountv.us>:
christianbalagso(5)vahoo.com
Subject: Bill21
I hope thisemail findsyou well,
My plan isto go and testifytomorrow againstthisbill.We would onlyhave a
3 year window of opportunityto retrofitnot onlyour stadium (footballand
softball)lightsand because we are a statefacilityand thisisa county bill
they willmore than likelynot help us with the costin upgrading.
Unfortunately,thisleavesus to playday games at the riskof seriousheat
illnessesto the playersand fans.Not to mention the policieswe follow
regardingheat illnessfrom the statewould allowvery littletime to practice
outdoors.There isa smallperiodof time beforethe sun goes down where it
isacceptableto practicewhen itishot on the footballfield.This putsthe kids
at a disadvantagenot only incompetitionwithinthe league but alsoat the
state levelwhich iswhere our kids can perform on a stage thatcould
enhance theiropportunitiesfor scholarships.
I could go on and on about how thiswillnegativelyimpact the league and
how many studentathletes(4-5thousand),students,and loyalfans thatall
the schoolsinthe MIL have. Healthand safetyas you know ismy main
concern.I have been doing thisfor24 years and thiswould be a disasterthat
I can see coming and would not be ableto control.
I am writingto you because I heard you work inTamara Paltin'soffice.
Please excuse the errorifI heard wrong.
Jonathan Conrad ATC, CAA
Athletic Director
Lahainaluna High School
MIL Basketball and Golf Coordinator
ionathan.conrad@ki2.hi.us
808-318-0445
This isa staffemail account managed by Hawaii Department Of Education School
District.This email and any filestransmittedwith itare confidentialand
intended solelyforthe use of the individualor entityto whom they are
addressed. Ifyou have received thisemail in error please notifythe sender.«****« + :4c*«**4:**:t;«*:>):**i4:!4c*i|i:***«4:**************** «******t***«***«*****«*
♦ ****♦ + +If; ♦
This email was scanned by the Cisco IronPortEmail SecuritySystem contracted by
the Hawaii Dept of Education.Ifyou receivesuspicious/phishemail,forward a copy
to phishing-report@kl2.hi.us. This helps us monitor suspicious/phishemail getting
thru.You willnot receivea response, but restassured the informationreceivedwill
help to build additional protection.
This isa staffemail account managed by Hawaii Department Of Education School District.This
email and any filestransmittedwith itare confidentialand intended solelyforthe use of the
3
individualor entityto whom they are addressed.Ifyou have receivedthisemail inerrorplease
notifythe sender.
Thisisa staffemailaccountmanaged by Hawaii Department Of EducationSchoolDistrict.Thisemailand any
filestransmitted with itare confidential and intended solelyfortheuse oftheindividualor entitytowhom they
are addressed.Ifyou have receivedthisemail inerrorplease notifythe sender.
4
received
mi JUU 4 AH1I--03
F .TH5,ajButlani
Aloha County Counci
Iam writingto you today to oppose the;t;
housing project.There are several reasons why Ido
not agree with thisprojectbeing built.
I liveone streetover from thisprojecton
Namauu place. Ihave experienced the major trafficand
floodingdamages that have occurred injustthe last
few years inthisarea.
First of a
We have an infrastructureproblem on South Kihei
Road and allowing any new constructioninthe area will
cause allof us on Namauu place, Hoonani and
Waipuilanimuch more problems. We only have an
entrance and exitthrough South KiheiRoad and our
wait times to get out of our streethas increased 3xs the
amount during thisyear.
We can not handle any more cars on our roads without
adding sidewalks,culvertrepairs,stop lightsand
possiblymore lanes of trafficto our already congested
South Kihei Road.
Theseidevelopers are not going to make repairsto the
Waipuilani road or South Kihei road that willbe caused
by the heavy'equipment and additionalcars that willbe
travelingevery day inthe area. They do not care about
our old infrastructureor anything that happens to our
way of lifeafterthese houses are built.They only care
about sellingthese homes.
Please remember thatWaipuilani,Namauu and
Hoonani are 3 of the oldest neighborhoods in Kiheiand
allof our way of lifewillbe greatlyaffectedby this
added constructionand congestion to the area. Also
the factthatthey are condo stylehomes does not fit
intoour neighborhoods. These condos are going to be
sold to outsiders who can afford them and will
eventually become rentalincome for most.
Ihave been working with my community foryears on
protectingour Waipuilanigulch and our Waipuilani
Beach Reserve. Icallthisprojectand the Hoonani
projectan attack on our naturalresources. These two
neighborhoods are builtaround our wetlands and this
projectshould not be allowed to happen forthat reason
alone.
We are currentlytryingto get a wetlands protection
resolutionpassed thatwould protectthese wetlands as
you allknow. Ifyou allow thisprojectto move forward,
you are going against allof our community members,
our south Maui vision plans and wetlands experts who
know and have toldthe council what willhappen ifwe
destroy our remaining wetlands.
We need our wetlands that are stillleft in the area to
remain intheirnaturalstate so that they can do their
job.They help our land heal when floodingoccurs and
help to stop runoffthatwillgo straightintoour ocean.
Affordable housing should be builtforMaui residence
and not forjustanyone who works here. Please say no
to thisprojectto protectour naturalresources and
focus your housing support towards trulyaffordable
housing forour people.
Locals don'twant to livein condos and they can'tafford
these proposed priceseven ifthey are coined as
“affordable”.Once our wetlands are destroyed they can
not be brought back. The floodingthat occurs
everywhere around Waipuilaniwillstillhappen ifthese
condos are built.It'sjusta matter ofwhen and where
the floodingwilloccur once developers are allowed to
buildon top of our lastremaining wetlands.
Please say no to destroying our wetlands and our
communities' qualityof life.Say no to Hale Waipuilani.
Sincerely,Brandi Corpuz
Rooted Kekahi Me Ka Aina
808-357-9170
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Jean Corpuz <jeanranel6@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:34 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom jeanranel6@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalol
OO ® 73
C OC32
50-im m●<
O 5 <o -n
m
● ●
a
CO
1
RECEIVED
County Clerk
mi JUL m PH 1=22From:
Sent:
David L Cunningham <prayforrain@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:58 PM
CountyClerk OFFICE OF THE
Support forResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipulawO^^'^'''^CLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom prayforrain@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council member,
Maui needs homes for local families. I've lost too many friendsfrom the islandsto the mainland because they can not
affordto livewhere they were born and raised. Isupport affordable housing and you should too. Please vote in favor of
Resolution22-61.Support housing forlocalfamiliesand not justhigh end housing formainland buyers.
Mahalo,
David Cunningham
lifelongKama'aina
X
1
County Clerk RPrPI\/irp
2022Jli I PN 29From:
Sent:
ElijahCurry <novel.adJ@gmait.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:23 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale WaipuilirriFICEOF THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom novel.adj(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
ElijahCurry,Kihei,808-773-3757
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
Diana Dahl <dianaidahl@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 9:46AM
County Clerk
IN SUPPORT OF ESTABLISHING A WATER AUTHORITY
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftenget emailfrom dianaldahl@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
To Maui County Mayor and Council:
Appreciatethe opportunityto givetestimony insupport of a charteramendment to createa Water Authorityin
Maui County. No more studiesare needed inorder to give the people a chance to vote for such. Please make sure
this ison the ballot in November. Please further refer to my daughter Megan Loomis Powers' testimony alsosent
today: 1echo her concerns.
Let's make sure this Charter Amendment ison the BALLOT. Also,another relatedissue— please approve Planning
Commissions ineach Community Plan District.
Mahalo foryou considerationof thisimportant issue.
Sincerely,
Diana Loomis Dahl
Haiku
X
Count^^led<
From:
Sent:
Vivian Dames <viviandames@rocketmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:28 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from viviandames@rocketmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
O nj
C ~n
73
mF
Om
-< mv.n
oo
<Tl
mm “4
:cx
T.n OCD
rv>
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Martha Davenport <marthamua@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 12:00PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from marthamua@gmaii.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Our family isindesperate need foraffordablehousing,and would benefitfrom this,itcould change our livesand
offerhousing securityforso Many inthe same positionwho work day afterday to make ends meet.
Mahalol
Martha Davenport
1
received
mi JUL Ifl PH h 22
Count^CleMc
From:
Sent:
Maria Melo <malualoha@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 12:47 PM
County Clerk
Committee Report No. 22-62; Bill107, CD! (2022)
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom malualoha@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Chair Lee,
I do not support Bill107, CD1 (2022), in itscurrentform. The largestproblem Isthe lackof affordablehousing for
sale on Maui. The County should be assistingbuildersto buildmore affordablehousing. Lowering the pricethatbuilders
can sellthe affordablehousing forisa deterrentto buildingmore affordablehousing. Insteadof loweringthe affordable
housing sales pricesplease consider subsidizingthe individualbuyers thatneed the help.
Maria de Melo
1
RECEIVED
Ml JUL 14 PM I? 50
Senate OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
STATE CAPITOL
HONOLULU, HAWAI-I 968 1 3
SUPPORT TESTIMONY ON 22-119, GDI. FD1
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),AS
AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH A MAUI NUI COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS AND AN EAST MAUI
REGIONAL COMMUNITY BOARD"
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
FRIDAY, JULY 15, 2022
9:00AM
Dear Council Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawiins-Fernandez and allmembers of the Maui County
Council,
Iwrite to you to today to express my support forCouncil Resolution 22-119, CDl. FDl for the
establishment of a Maui Nul Community Water Systems and an East Maui Regional Community
Board.
As the StateSenator representingallof East Maui, UpCounty Maui along with Moloka'i,Lanai,
Kaho'olawe and Molokini Ifeel the establishment of the proposed system and board willgive a
much-needed voice and a sense of oversightto my constituents.
Respectfully,
Lynn DeCoite
Hawaii State Senate
7'^ District
Senator Lynn DeCoite
District7: Makawao (Sprecklesville,Pukalani,Makawao, Olinda,Pulehu,Kula,Waiohuli,Keokea,
Ulupalakua, portion of Keoneoio, Paia,Lower Paia,Haiku,Pauwela,Ulumalu, Huelo, Kailua),Wailuku
{portionof Kahului),Hana (Keanae, Wailua, Nahiku, Hana, Hokuuia, Hamoa, Puuki,Haou, Muolea,
Kipahulu,Kaupo); Islandsof Kaho'olawe, Molokini,Lanai, Molokai
State Capitol,Room 231, Honolulu, HI 96813
Phone: (808)587-7225 Fax:(808) 587-7230
Email Address; sendecoite@caDitol.hawaii.gov
Count^Clei^
From:
Sent:
Mike <mike@scshawaii.com>
Friday,July15,2022 4:33 PM
County Clerk
Response to Bill107: CC22-62 Oppositon
RECEIVED
To:
mi JUL 15 PM 7- 26Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKYou don'toftenget emailfrom mike@scshawaii.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha County Council
Iam opposed to Bill107 (CC22-62) which seeks to decrease the salespriceforaffordablehousing on Maui. We all
know affordablehousingisneeded but ifthisbillgoes intoeffect,no one willactuallybe buildingthese affordable
homes. Contractors/construction crews would face a losingmoney battlehere and thus, have no incentiveto build
them beyond a kindgestureto the community. Given the amount of time italready takes to buildanything on Maui,
given the variousregulationsand permits needed, the billfailsto considerthese lengthydelays,which also cost
money. Ioppose thisbill.
Mahalo,
Michael Dega, Ph.D.
1
Count^Clei^
Suzie Dorn <suziedorn@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:59PM
County Clerk
IOPPOSE HaleWaipuilaniProjectCommittee report22-61
HaleWaipuilaniHousing Petition-oppose(1).pdf;waipuilaniroad - 16E.20210313.
064918
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
(1).Jpg;waipuilani-neighborhood-petition-map2(1).jpg
O-n
C"n
zo
3
:d
mcz
You don’toften get email from suziedorn@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant o“im m
oo $ <-n
mAloha,
Istronglyoppose the Waipuilani Hale Affordable Housing proposalfor16E.WaipuilaniRoacT'
m-4
nox orr^
lu
My name isSuzanne Dorn and Iliveat 6 E.Waipuilani Road and IOPPOSE the proposed Waipuilanidevelopment at 16 E.
Waipuilani Road.
PLEASE DO NOT ALLOW ANY PROJECT IN THIS AREA -1 suggest making thisa conservationarea,and swap thislandfor
one of the County parcelsthat are availablefor affordablehousing.
Ihave reviewed allthe meetings/videos regardingthisdevelpement and Iam certainany projectbuilton thissitewill
cause an increaseinfloodingto our neighborhood.
Allowing 28 residences/townhomes {withone, two, and 3 bedrooms totaling72 bedrooms) and 59 parkingspaces to be
builtinthislocationisunsafe and totallyirresponsibleof any builder/developerto even considerthislocationforsuch a
dense project.This property islocatedina FEMA floodzone, tsunami zone, tsunami evacuation area and isina SMA
area. WaipuilaniRoad isthe tsunami evacuation streetforthe area. Ihave witnessed major floodinginthisarea over
the years. Waipuilani to Kauha'a Street isone of (oris)the area with the most floodinginallof South Maui.
Betsill/AlaulaBuildersare callingthisan "in-fill"project.Thisdevelopment isfarfrom an in-fillproject.Betsillhas asked
foran exemption inzoning to allow multi-family-duplex units.Please DO NOT allow thiszoning exemption. Allthe
homes in thisarea are zoned R-3, which isa lotarea of 10,000sq foot with an accessory dwelling of up to 720 square
feet. Allowinga zoning exemption to 28 duplex unitsand 59 parkingspaces on a 1.53 acre lotwilldrasticallychange and
have a negative impact on our neighborhood.
WaipuilaniRoad actsat the secondary (main) road when there are accidentsnear Lipoaor on the Highway, the
traffic/gridlockdown WaipuilaniRoad can be backed up at times allthe way to LiloaStreet.When we get our heavy
rainsfrom Kona storms or the runoff floodingfrom Upcounty Kauha'a and WaipuilaniRoad intersectionsbecome
undrivable.You can not even pass a car when drivingup Kauha'a to Liloa.Kauha'astreetisso narrow and filledwith
street parking Idoubt a firetruck could even drive down thisstreet.This small lotat 16 E Waipuilani Road can not
handle thisproject.
Ihave seen 16 E.Waipuilani Road and the surrounding area completely flooded and access cut offto the property allthe
way down to South KiheiRoad, thisproperty actsas de factodetentionbasinforstormwater. Allowingthisdense
projectto be builtWILL create additionalfloodingto the neighbors propertiesand thisalreadyfloodsensitivearea.
Please read thisarticlefrom Hawaii News Now 05/23/2011 -The articletalksabout thisexact area with statements from
former Planning DirectorDavid Goode. InthisarticleGoode talksabout "moving people out" of thisarea. David Goode
1
isnow a PlanningConsultantforAlaua/BetsillBrothersand was at our firstZoom meeting March 01, 2021. David Goode
suggested in 2011 that some people inthisexact area be moved out. How can thisWaipuilani Hale projectbe supported
by anyone knowing how bad the floodingisinthisexactarea and suggestthatthe residents/homesbe located?
https://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/storv/14702361/special-report-kihe i-underwater/
Quote from David Goode; There isan Option B that'smuch easierand much cheaper,but perhaps not os
realistic.
"Theleastcostlythingmight be tomove peopleout Has thateverbeen seriouslyconsidered?Well,thereore
instancesofcompletetowns alongtheMissouriRiverthatwere removed,"saidGoode. "That'snotgonna happen
inKihei,but theremight be a few where itdoesn'tmake sense tohove a structurerightinthemiddle."
T
Attached isa petitionstartedby localWaipuilaniresidentsand signed by over 200 residentslivingIn100
homes in the immediate area. I am aware of an "on-line counter petition"startedby Betsilito support their
Waipuilaniproject.We chose to not startan on-linepetitionand went door to door to speak to allthe
neighborsand;everyonethatwillbe affectedby thisdevelopment.We couldhave easilygatheredmany more
signaturesifwe chose to do an onlinesponsored petitionlikeBetsili.Our petitionissigned by local
residents/homeowners who are veryconcerned about thisdevastatingprojectinour Waipuilanicommunity.
The lastmeeting iswas mentioned that64% of homeowners inthisareaarefrom out of state.Ilooked up all
the home owners on WaipuilaniRoad, and 100% of these homes areowned by Maui residents,thereareonly4
homes on thisstreetthat are second homes (but the owners stillliveon Island)with 2 of the owners owning 2
homes on WaipuilaniRoad, These are alllocalresidentsinthisarea.
Pleaselistento the localresidents/neighbors,some who have livedinthisareafor60 plusyears.We allknow this
area,the land,the neighborhood, the roads,the flood issues,the safetyconcerns, etc and WE ALL suggest thisproject
be relocated to a more suitable area. Please consider our South Maui representativeKellyKingsviews on opposing this
projectas welllas the KiheiCommunity Association,Maui Tomorrrow, SierraClub,South Maui Save the Wetlands Hui,
and allthe area neighbors who are asking thisprojectto not be approved inthisarea.
1am respectfullyaskingthe Maui County Councilto not approve the 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad housingprojectfor
all the above reasons.
Mahalo,
Suzanne Dorn
808-283-7913
attached:
Waipuilani Hale signed petition
Waipuilani petitionmap
photo: flooding 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad
2
Q)
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers, OPPOSE theproposed
"HaleWaipuilani"housingproject"at16 E.WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureName EmailAddress
k^4i/jXL!Uu.Cf-t>
IdWM——
HI pofoart^ '(j3^
jL*
mr
K)f y ^^ yt /.<-
<p/*\
r/yi
Qnry^j^Y\aAJUJL>Y'
4
^ t^g, Pi <'W
^/./if K.:K
4/c^ g>TU2_^/^ ^l(C^Afb^ cC
/^77 AW^c2/jW?/'/«L.O
0is LJ ^fu>U^T]f <!-j'\njQJ'/^^^1 Ooinis J
^mXMi^- |gefrsriA^j)iiJt.uilz{,\U\t% U
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers, OPPOSEtheproposed"Hale Waipuilani"housing project"at 16 E. WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureEmailName Address
r
Lp t-. W)£uf>UAUL/v\//2.DOo/2-(sJ
6 ^ LJ A r P O I t-/A« :j=>
c . C<7M755<-i f
WcrV^\\.(:dV>r
KiMi Hi
M
jc^rcwfm^ r
, 1C?
O.S a.
VCiWi fH’
M3f KcxUa^fn Loo
(^c\.
-r^v>
i±
'jcd(jL&C'i\(^g<fl<-KaU
f Ia
1/
cg_ l<ra.uAxQ/4 lice^ K-r«^vA KZ-"^ ka./yi<t?.fflPc?Lgy^'P 1 I. OC, <j^Ua(o
L^acli 117-9kuUy iiiii(ge^	
K^^aaPo .CoAA lOA
7
3 I W. V~p!/●;
3\ l\l(p;9w\W'>
”3///'bo‘i>Wf4
[W.U4uU-V-w€-\(clWo-
/Ur
CWi if3uiuV0{-'z^'
^fLsSJ,00^'^'
We the undersignedlocalresidentsand community members, OPPOSE theproposed
"Hale Waipullani”housing project”at 16 E. WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureName EmailAddress
hiiJsSo-X 1^5'£ 	 	hi^
9
6 1:1 o_ ^
/ / y
.-f))ynrU@Lj?n.rr/Co/o-lUwLy
\jjxx\f^Ufn^i I ^
l// ["7|^
tfmk (gk)
I € IaJcu?cnW7a aUgl^/1
i-MO\7Ad'P'va-g
Ua^Ii6a|A ●IcCi Z
(^■Q^’dv^c
Q^\l4lf£-iffy\e^W
NeJh.e i9Sy/{iFoii^Aji
1(^1\aJqij)ULc^^A
llv \NA'fviiWi
pj2071(1
KiMmw #vtw I
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers,OPPOSEtheproposed"HaleWaipuilani"housing'project"at16 E.WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei.Hi.96753.
SignatureEmailAddressName
//3 WpidLohd
■7
Wl .LWksJE VMftlPMlLftlOl
(3. 12^
L
m¥\
>S4 L32 ■7T
/17 ^
^ALCjOML /*^V fi b.fm ^ATAff>Kic
7
■fin^uij3(jA/}A\/\AodCtC^l /o/ 7
fai'AV
t
WK ^c5V-^Gl/(?
^n rJcl)
C«irA?^ ^AVoxuA-'^^M 9,-^ VOajpUiKi^i
g| P
££
f/lA^)
We the undersignedlocalresidentsand community members, OPPOSE theproposed
“Hale Waipuilani”housing project"at 16 E. WaipuilaniRoad, Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureName Address Email
3\Ws Cx
p/'r'rAii.fc't ^ ''K^A
//
IJSi^' It-AlUiv lo(:>P
fhf
^^ic>y\AbVux \-C.mdi.’"v3IWr\h
113^ k-M^i^p^Lr (jJcSt^r^7>^M-eiDA53^ A 06 <Com
'&-●r\AG.^
f/9LBS>£0hA- o/r-. p“■ntvi
^knef- [)^ f/
- \
<S HOT>^s (^Leiy ftit^ .4^
i6l> 'AOtr ■//)
25>e\oi9i.Vilcl^j'k^U/KCLfvd rni\os\d(Lm<xiit)L(g)v|nV\no.c# /(Xy
3'^^pl'Cn. / H P/ac^ ^ppJ ^ (^>v>rcrj
g P ojeciat16t.WaipuilaniRoad.Kihei.Hi.96753.proposed
Name
Address
Email Signature
I ^ir
J 6LI (((^ tun 00,
iiU>^
^aJ(^ S/ AS- ^ ^ <X/>(CCnr\r\or*^
lUnylcfi
/
<^1 L£l(tO 0^ ^1 ;t
B HAA/A HWYC-K t^iA.Vr rvgU (-Cc^r-.
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand community members, OPPOSE theproposed
“HaleWaipuilani"housing project"at 16 E. WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureName EmailAddress
*0I Ov
Yolpin>S.i^rioyf)ja/Yici,'I.Q}7\KaohaleSi-DOV
I-in ^ ^kiAyPl
I"
● xn^ :y
>/Ji
D 3 d f'
U
i ^Mm.
54 V\^)
lh'\h W I#:4i)^
Z
15 \M\c^-e2- vo^a.CoiM
euu PU(»£ %7 '53
5l^ (’f./vif‘iUc}
/
iUAiM .fllV^^^°'^'*)gu.^guA ^ ^■
U/o*\<f>-3c':)^ ndr>iii.'iU ow\
£-UCa,
<-y j ' a ^£1i'l £ HU
We the undersignedlocalresidentsand community members, OPPOSE theproposed
"Hale Waipuilani"housing project"at 16 E. WaipuilaniRoad, Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureName Address Email
jeMP tv |C/iW
ClA/riAl/|ipu\aiiRJIci
3\(L^ , of klUn
!ilPi —^u-i—
6QS ^ V VaU.tS\m/ ^ ^ 5VpV\^vSccS5>76J^(AN\\.CC3M.
c::,●C*H^
UjoeAe.
1
	
Tp>^?U( irH"tt.7S3. 7*
CV:)OOfiy<'Vp^^C0>^VAojvil fiCtJeVKCV [tf\\tiMo^PV, V,\wt\ U\ ‘=\toT5'5 . COVVN fS^
7^
“i^u ^moil-coiT
lldl-f\xjpJp] Ktt^Z)fy/
VM^ipu\Uni Y^-in ?niArm,P(- m n€i
T^e-
Kala^^ wv^rtiv^
-yg- cf.
tn pl;^-».A^4 fiu
7 5" UJliy^uiU^«c^+-i ly fr^l y'S~^^
<c«● a//
&7T
uu x2y
f 7
7.^ Cll
’ocalresidentsandcommunitymembers.OPPOSE theproposed
HaleWaipuilani"housingproject"at16E.WaipuilaniRoad, Kihei, Hi. 96753.
Name Address Email
3k£l?uPL- K;h:.Ht^irKl
7^ /Ck
//S CC£>U PL/jcE Km 91S1<;>
(3 ^ntt
iCtM^
l^^dhflMoa.'f^ - \oh\
Ilf ^leiAf"C■ H'
'I
Pi.-Milfe3 w
\2n l-iguPL -V^ihziHt ^(pl33
h\8j^Wc\ggrm\l
~'AusVi'.’i^feJ^®jpuacV^ot
\CGteM^<VoTjM(Q)jMT;//■CCn
zT-H-iaL-o^g)
2ag\&f\k£- gy^
V k;We\1-(%7^f/^7 ^ M.
t-\fu'91 VIW\^cxwv\o '(wA/m
Yl\^
^ Vievt^ iv|:f●eUiA brvti-1^hv\l\jI ■;■2
(£i/
%-T^7
I za
illl^l -/
Name
IL iM _l_lI_tH_WfS
iAWlh\v\
Wci^vaTah 	 	>^vrr _t^^cl^eTTtrfay^V
Email s re
yvn5tir\grnQrflr4Kt.^ol]Kc^\Z.O
i27.
kc^MnICa,o^'^a^,'k
C^C/\t
V'
ke\QC^ (fistvogLocftfeaggroQt|Jil
<?tw\U^RcMOjeJ.
^cs6>an
*7^OWj^A^/Lei^K,t^k^\u^
^ 17^>u'\\PkStK^h^/.3^M-5
CP
C2^A (7^t4t-fH^ uAu^
ttO ^ 3,»£Ki
jj(Sey'r'^Do ^^ ^rie.^Y
iri^ s. lY.h^: gj
kt^Ui\^ql6'tKtWi9^7^^
CJO
^ovu
Z>(g^5»v«<</,'C:s
yl-
Smao ^ *=C^rU»Pl 96'?9'5SH/T.^Ci^l'sSi(^ KiOOiy.<trn/&£;r
I
residentsandcommunitymembers.OPPOSE theproposedHaleWaipuilani"housingproject"at16EWaipuilaniRoad .Kihei. Hi. 96753.
Name Address Email Signaturei'az-
^viavA
.iMZJI
//t'S ^
A
k : i£L
So
^\Tf^
«-^ *
7
lAia vA^Oll
\o~inThiclillo.. ^6 c>-kjj'~< l/c^yU
Ifc
C<yi€(f T^H^. ^6 qJ(o/-iuu/^v
/O2(o
KX, t-Liip^ry-vC> U.a« 7,^13.7
O» ^ Oi-
I?"Ku/c.r, 5 j, £k,.l<!-,51--H
K.'^-c;,M j; sC7t3	 	 (^ui'i^c.r^ua.Q,Q^J.Co/^
ty^/iy^o\r(^eZ. 7;
S) IQ-'"’5 Kihf; Rj/o9 5S
~v<xuir^ cj ez>6r, nQ,c- ii »<'('iti.-
^Kc^^'c/^iVolfiSW€,n
^ 74 73-3
f(\d[m\/ cihvi.^ /
tMfe
Lo(€/^ 0.
LuMij^ll'lC^7<^Udhoi>dcn^
A^( co^
7 ^ k/uXToneiMUxp^^Ip'MlChmh'nL'7>(vrii\ri<^
Email
Name
CV(P‘5c.Ho Address
_3p l/n/IP|Alg' Signature
Coo^^ Uu>1Av;£ -
U[)M(Xnr,.^\
1-4AA/V)^^ l_^
^ .(—■ < ^ oC
OO r<?y-v
^vi/11/Lp-
z:?
<:fe
^ ^ ^ 	
<2,VHL015.kfZ^U
Ln^ I
A JL^
-^Vo
k c?
K>-e.
XMl I-U'i
Kr'' " ^ *^«o ● t ●
/W
XA) 1^
4' LiSo
«■ 1
^Hy <./i^^ ga .>?»» yAt><i,ui^^„:L
MACfipohj^<^^-WL
etc /L
^ f/>^/?y< /y.L,2/’JL
—
F^TSV ^CO^Ni iSfc^tAhl‘HAi^'Sr^7j- ^.\Fe\^J0'^^t^3^l0b\§GK\/^VW-C.DtA 5C50
'^^Hate^Wa!nni?rn1"communitymembers,OPPOSEtheproposedpuilanihousingprojectat16E.WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi. 96753.
Name Address Email Signature
\o%n ^ s. icvw, ?os"v\S'f«/aox \J\bc5^^j
^T^C^d\VC<^X)cvtI grw(>i\■^ rt^ry\
r>A,\
Rd.Z-4>^^OMjL
f Ijl
rr>ar^?ZiLrl\\l
v\<\d^(L\
oy\ ^ ^iv^j-Ei t4i.u r
IS V\ Vn^ X.o ‘ S'i'T'e^'Vi
QJr , Wev. VX\ c^ioi^zO «-A\c<^
7^3Kd)G>-To A<^k/A L^COc-o ^Took;L S
5 ^<=T4
U1
CkocJ tCc^fif^ loiPp^L'Cyoj
<i>tr.Cjo/h
f'ft a
Mn)LA<fWi i/^(^"A1^^
IllA
'^0jj£d^fjyk(d(/J^ls9p'j CL
SDifL'Ki fV\Au\orfanbU(gjimiicor-(LCSon Si±^
f^i ^/ ^/Vm/»7 ■^-M £-(ijI (2^ c ^●JyU/>TC76i I
^tTV6T idUfiyf^iAA.JypA L{fia\
,;1>■ , U f
(IlA<V)C' v^ecj? IZ
We theundersignedlocalresidents^
OPPOSEtheproposed"HaleWaipuilaand communitymembers,
ni"housingproject"at16
E WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,HI.96753 t ●
A^A/yi g D/Z
^£1
C-o\iK£a
^ LYy\ 01^ nn^
( l-o<^
S- J^u t
bit efuU
i>'
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers,OPPOSE the proposed
"HaleWaipuilani"housingproject"at 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad, Kihei,Hi.96753.
Address Signature'9\ ● Email
n
[q31 Uom si ■ccv^
O'OM
./ /i"—TTT
1 ^ 7/ ^0
Trui^'
7
fo5^ S-T
ift?uS'T
jb\J
KjOWVo^
!
Wo theurCcrsignedlocalrosidontsand communitymombors.OPPOSE tho proposed
"Ha*cWa<pulaoi'housingproject"at16 E.WatpuilaniRoad. Kihei,Hi.96753.
AoJress SiqnatureEmail
^O'^l iliH 5. Ki)^ci RJ
T£.JiI(IP(,?fi/ky(s1167. A^kcJ
[Q~7^ ^
Xfe Iju^ ' /dfZ ●
((4 Sciatm \Z{I2g^ dovi )m(lU[Ji0y^,ico^^y
^ma(hcw_^£^\ rr(^Oui^oclC.Cg/H
(f^
^\Aajo\LOayn_j^^<^C^YV\0>●\.C<2»^J07‘i fr--
C£^
4i/H● |,Ka.Wfu ^JoL^ M
57 /Vokfe ^t
M
'h^hliyfZ^O
>4A A)oiol^'5 1^
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers. OPPOSE the proposed
"HaleWaipuilani*housingproject"at16 E.WaipuilaniRoad. Kihei,Hi.96753.
Na
Email ^
IS7TS. K'kM RJ. Kui
Sk-foM.. cr-^
dWc^ YXid'o UciU 'O/V-U.U H'J' CV)flj&jg(u’o@(.doc«^I:
r /fVg((AsJoAVV£(Rza>Ji.^cLzlv^:)f^ibUx//^//(y\clZl^B U?cilptJ/)£^>^ filc}uu}ll9^75^3 Q]ajoOUt^/'C^ZOf^
A ^/oA-v	Ui 7(^ tp fuiAe2. ^2Cr:>
We theundersignedlocalresidentsand communitymembers.OPPOSE theproposed
“HaleWaipuilani"housingproject"at16 E.WaipuilaniRoad,Kihei,Hi.96753.
SignatureEmailAddressName
vo<"ipviilaniRif. ,yi%T55
hcivoaii-
e(f\AjOvTapyiinfi
P£| CflCTfillo a
r-7 Ci
|Qy'A^*4(^ \.4^
u
v4^0/a \
\W\ 5$b,ycjva'Si^fjgrinaouidtxori-
-Vk>Vc^\


Count^ClerJ< RhCLlV^EDSuzie Dorn <suziedorn@gmail.com>
Friday,July 15,2022 8:10 AM
County Clerk
I OPPOSE HALE WAIPUILANI PROJECT CR 22-61
From:
Sent:
im JUL 15 AH » 15To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget email from suziedorn(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant
I OPPOSE HALE WAIPUILANI PROJECT
Mv name is Suzanne Dorn and Ioppose the Hale Waipuilani project.This projectneeds to be disapproved. My last
testimony Isuggested keeping the zoning to R3 singlefamily homes only,but afterreading allthe documents for this
development, listeningto the presentationsand comments from engineeringand other departments -1 am now
convinced that any development builton thislotwillhave a directnegative impact and create more floodingfor this
area. Iam askingforthispropertyto become a conservationzone; There iscounty land foraffordablehousing set aside
near the R/T park forabout 1200 homes, land inMaui Lani,near the Kihei policestationand in Puunene. Please DO NOT
approve thisproject-there should be no new houses in flood zones.
Maui has many affordablehousing projectsbeing built,there isa lotteryina few weeks inKiheiforover 100 affordable
homes, 40 homes innorth Kihei,Bestilisworking on 204 affordablehomes inwailuku,there isanother 700 affordable
home projectinthe plans,plusmany other projects.
At the lastmeeting Carnecelli said they were open to a land swap, theironly concern was itwould take time but why
should we rush this?They should put thisprojectina safe locationwhere itisa win-win for everyone. The county has
offereda landswap or the County can purchasethisland back; the developer only paid 1 milliondollarsfor it.Turn this
area intoa conservation area,thisisthe best possibleuse for 16 E Waipuilani Road
At the lastmeeting Carnecellisaidtheirflood water runoff willbe cleaner.
Ifyou do not livein this floodplain you do not know how dangerous and scary itis.These flood events are not justa few
hours,these floodevents can be days,months and sometimes years to recover. Ihave experienced many floodswhile
livinghere.We have 100 sand bags stockpiledinthe corner of our yard at alltimes. During storms and flood advisories
my husband and Ihave to sleep inshiftsso we can be alertto flooding.When floods damage our home we have claimed
on our flood insurance.
We believe this project will make flooding worse.
When the floodsstartthere isno help,every man ison theirown. When we call911 they can not help us,they say they
have too many other thingsto deal with. The streetsusuallyflood firstwhich makes evacuation difficultor impossible.
When the water startscoming intoyour house itisalready too lateto do anything about it.During floodswe have
begged passingfiretrucksforhelp,we have calledthe county and the authoritiesand no one can do anythingto help us.
The only people who have ever helped duringthe storms are our immediate neighbors.
There are no police,no emergency services,no road works blinkingsigns,there isabsolutelyno help. When the streets
flood,passingtruckscreate largewaves that createmore problems and the entiresituationiscomplete chaos.
The aftereffectscan be long lived,weVe been stuckin our home for a week untilthe mud driesenough to be shoveled
away to move our carsthere isno help for this.Aftermajor floodingthe Red Cross comes to check on us and our
homes, they giveus bleach and cleaningsuppliesand talkabout the riskof mold inthe house, body infectionsand staph
from the floodingwaters.
At the lastmeeting a Council member saidthey were thinkingof the 28 people who need homes, well Iam asking to
1
please consider the 28 plus people who can losetheirhomes due to the directimpacts thisprojectwould have on our
neighborhood.
an -
Mahalo foryour consideration.
-I « M ei jui swSuzanne Dorn
808-283-7913
,tnT nC riOi i iw
>iH3JD YTHUO..
2
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
MJ Duberstein<mjduberstein@gmail.com>
Sunday, July17,2022 10:45 PM
County Clerk
Re:CR 22-61
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom mjduberstein@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha
I have not testified on this item before.
That,unfortunately,was an oversight.
Buildinganything ina floodzone isnot smart development.
Attempting to put workforce or so-calledaffordable housing in a flood zone isdoubly ridiculous.
Iappreciate that a solutionisable to happen on behalf both of the developer—who should have known better—and the
County to make a land swap thatcan,with your approval,resultinthe flood zone land be turned intoa permanent
conservation site.
Do it,please.
You willbe remembered as officialswho willlong be remembered as making a criticaland positivestep inprotectingthe
aina.
And, the developer willbe able to buildtrue workforce and affordablehousing on a bettersite.
As we move intocreationof the South Maui Community Plan,thisstep willa model forthe future of our community.
Malama aina.
Ua Mau ke Ea o Ka Aina I Ka Pono
Michael J Duberstein
34 IliwaiLoop Kihei96753
808-891-0597
1
Count^Clerk
ChristianDumaianta <chrisdumalanta@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:43AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom chrisdumalanta@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Ihave many family members and friendswho are being pushed offthe islandor aren'tableto get ahead financially
because rent isgettingtoo expensive and housing pricesare too high.
Pleasevote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
3oo
O-n
C3!
73Mahalo!
m
oChristian Dumaianta, R(S) 78470
eXp Realty
Direct: 808-463-4828
chrisdumalanta@gmail.com
m
<-n
r* m
ao
vn
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
mi JUL 14 PH 4= 25From:
Sent:
Gina Duncan <mauigina(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,July 14,2022 4:20 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution 22-61: workforce housing at Hale WaipullaS^^P^ THECOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
You don'toften get email from mauigina@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesthatthey can afford.The rentalmarket isso
tightrightnow that when rentersare displacedthey can'tfinda home. Let'sget our localfolksintopermanent homes.
These homes would costsimilarto what many are payingfor rent.
Mahalo!
Gina Duncan R PB Fine IslandPropertiesLLC 808-250-9858 https://ginaduncan.fineislandproperties.com
RB-21124
1
Count^Clerk
TravisDuncan <AlohaProperties@live.com>
Friday,July15,2022 12:50AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:\A/orkforcehousing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from alohaproperties@live.com.Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Thank you, Travis Duncan
Aloha Properties SC
704.957.5594 (cell)
3OC
72O-n
C'n m
5^ O
vn●< »»●
oo Tl
mm
:ox <3? Oo
1
Count^^CleHc
Isara Ebsen <isara@fixatedevents.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 1:26 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom isara@fixatedevents.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing forlocalfamiliesand not market housingforoffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Isara Ebsen
Directorof Operations
Fixated Events, LLC
isara@fixatedevents.com
206-707-9277
oc
Cl ID
Zo
73
mF O
m rn
o <o 3Ti
r“ mm ●5!? o
O
1
Count^Clerk RFPF'VFn
Gary Elster<crazy2kite@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:41AM
County Clerk
FW: Bill21 CD1 July15 WrittenTestimony submittalOFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From;
Sent: mum iii AH 9:10
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom crazy2kite@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
From: Gary Elster<gse@hawaii.rr.com>
Sent: Thursday, July14, 2022 8:28 AM
To: 'county.clerk@mauicountv.us'<county.clerk@mauicountv.us>
Subject:Bill21 CDl July15 Written Testimony submittal
Dear Councilmembers;
Iam writingto you to stronglysupport Bill21 CD 1
The billisa seriousattempt to improve our Nightlightordinance and needs your support.
Aloha
Gary Elster
808250-3726
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
Falishah<sassypants555@gmail.com>
Saturday,July16,2022 4:29 AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from sassypants555(5)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalol
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^CleH<
From:
Sent:
JeffreyFawson <jsfawson@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 3:01 AM
County Clerk
We Support Resolution22-61:Workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfromjsfawson@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Council member.
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing. Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61.Support
housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo, r-o
OO
O-n
C 'IT ^ mO
mx=
2oo <r* '
m9?
o73X on't CO
1
County Clerk
Ashley <ashleyfazal@mosaicchurch.tv>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:55 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toften get email from ashleyfazal@mosaicchurch.tv.Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Naeem and Ashley Fazal
QoO T1
CTl
m
om-< JS moo ~a
<
m
Dxni
w
1
Count^£lerk
Naeem Fazai <n@mosaicchurch.tv>
Saturday,July16,2022 3:09AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To;
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom n(5)mosaicchurch.tv.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
NAEEM FAZAL | MOSAIC CHURCH
www.mosaicchurch.tv |704.458.7373
1
Count^Clerk
From;
Sent:
Paul Fedi <ppfedi@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:05 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom ppfedi@gmaii.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
OQO TJ
50
qO
73
m
o
m
■n
m-H m<3?XX O?:m o
o
1
Count^CIerk
Dyvette Fong <dyvette.fong@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:58 PM
County Clerk
Item CC22-62 Affordable Housing Bill107
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom dyvette.fong@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Chair Alice Lee
County Council
oo
C3}
73200 South High Street m
o
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 mv/i
Oo -n
mop O,
oRe: Committee Report No. 22-62; Bill107, CDl (2022) ^ m UJ
Dear Chair Lee,
I do not support Bill107, CDl (2022),initscurrentform. The lackofaffordablehousingforsale
isthe biggestproblem when tryingto purchase a home on Maui. lama partner ina 100% workforce
projectthatwillnot get builtifthese salespricesgo intoeffect.Please understand that lowering the
pricethat builderscan sellthe affordablehousingfor Isa deterrentto buildingmore affordable
housing.More than likely,itwillreduce the number of affordablehomes that are built.Buildersare
alreadyfacingextreme Increasesinbuildingmaterialcosts as well as a shortage of workers and itwill
justnot be economicallyfeasible.Insteadof loweringthe affordablehousing salespricesplease
considersubsidizingthe individualbuyers thatneed the help.
Mahalo!
Dyvette Fong
Dyvette Fong
(808)870-3001
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
For SaleOn Maui <forsaleonmaui@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:38 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from forsaleonmaui@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
&
OO
O-n
c:;!!
50m
73
m
o
mv/i-<
O <o *n
mm -4 c? aO
1
Count^CjeH<
From:
Sent:
Frankum, Eric<Eric.Frankum@wGstin.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 7:51 PM
County Clerk
Takahashi,Rie (KEA)
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Cc:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from eric.frankum@westin.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Workforce housing isessentialto maintain a stableeconomy forthe future.We need to lower the pricesof our homes.
What more can you do?
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Eric Frankum
Senior Marketing Manager
THE WESTIN MAUI RESORT & SPA
2365 Ka’anapali Parkway,
Lahaina, HI 96761
westin.com/maui
M 808.357.6958
OoOtj
-S.
73
mr—
o
v-n mo
p-nm H
<
m
7\ m Oo
1
County Clerk
received
Zfl?zJUL13 PH4=31
L Freidenburg<lanihuii@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 4:28 PM
County Clerk
Isupport Bill21 {CDl FD1)I
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
office of the
COUNTY CLERK[You don't often get email from lanihuli@hawaii.rr.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha e County CouncilMembersI
Iam Linda Freidenburg of Ma'alaea, Maui. Iurge the Councilto support Bill21 and other similareffortsto restore
and protectdark nightskiesboth forus and wildlife.Hawai'iIslandhas been a pioneer inthese efforts.Maui may be a
bitlateto thiseffort,yet now isbetterthan never. This Council has been progressivein doing some thingsthat are in
the bestinterestforMaui. Your work isappreciated.Iencourage you to pass thisbill.
Mahalo palena 'ole!
1
Count^Oerk
From;
Sent:
MarisaFujimoto<marisa.m.fujimoto(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 11:16AM
County Clerk
Testimonyto Oppose Bill21 reOutdoor Lightinf
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom marisa.m.fujimoto@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council members,
Pleasedo not pass thisridiculousbill.The justificationforthisbillisto preventseabirdsfrom becoming
confused,but how isthatmore importantthan SAFETY FOR HUMAN BEINGS at night?
Iappreciatethose of you who work to improve the safetyand well-beingof our community and consider the
best interestsof the PEOPLE of Maui. Seabirds don'tpay taxes - Maui residents do!
Thank you,
Marisa Fujimoto
Wailuku Resident
OO
73O
Zn
c_
F m
o"im m-<
oo T\
m
XX
m
O
1
Count^£IetJ<
Edna Galinato <chinabear1992@gmail,com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:52 PM
County Clerk
Hale Waipuilaniproject
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from chinabear1992@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha my name isEdna Galinatoand Iwanted to share my concerns forthe project.Iam not able to attend ( zoom) or
callintomorrow at the time you allare havingthe meeting, so 1would liketo take the opportunity now to email you all.
I'velivedon East Waipuilani Streetfrom 1986-2019 ,although Ino longer residein KiheiIstillcare about the
neighborhoods thisone especially.Ido oppose the project,likethe many concerned residentsyou've heard from and
for allthe same reasons.While Ido support affordablehomes for localfamilies,Ialso do believethere isa RIGHT and
WRONG place to buildon. This isthe wrong area to buildthattype of affordableunits.Floodingof course is#1 reason .
No matter where you liveon Maui I'm almost certaineveryone knows South Kiheiroad when itfloodsas the whole state
in factjustwitnessed latelastyear.How can you guys support or allow for unitsto be builtwith no storm drainage
system to be in place.Buildingitabove so itdoesn'tsitlow isnot going to fixany futureissues,infactas more " future
builds"come up along Kiheiit'llbe a mess. Trafficand floods does not go hand in hand. That road isan alternateroute
when there are road closures, itsa gridlockso when an actualemergency evacuation needs to happen those residents
willbe stuck intheirown homes. Itsalsoso easy foreveryone to supportalsobecause they don'tlivethere,isthere
anyone on the county side or on the buildersside or anyone who wants thisto happen livesthere or have friendsand
familylivethere? Idoubt it.Would you allbe supportiveand happy ifthey wanted to builda projectlikethisinyour
residentialneighborhood? Like1said earlierthere are RIGHT placesto buildand WRONG placesto build.Itrulybelieve
thisprojectshould not go through inthisarea or any other floodzoned /wetlands areas.A temporary solutionisjust
that temporary, any projectbuildsshould be builtcorrectlystartingfrom the ground/foundation.Somany construction
in Kihei,when you guys keep givingthe green lighton buildingand buildingfor" profitsand image " thatsnot being
responsibleto your community. Thats the problem nowadays everything'sdone temporary so allthe taxpayerscan pay
bigger statetaxes on our car registrationsto fixroads from allthe floodingthat could have been prevented ifstorm
drainage was put in correctplaces.Thank you foryour time, 1do apologizefor my long letterbut inshort,IDO NOT
support the Hale Waipuilani project.
Mahalo,
Edna
0.0
CTJ
?>4
^ mm O-< Crj
oP m"n
9? rn
o D
(V
N>
1
Count^Gerk
From:
Sent:
KeithGarcia <baldsound@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 1:21PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom baldsound@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Keith Garcia
no
<=31
50●im
73
m
o
msz<
oO <-n
mm-H
33 X
3;m
a
o
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Chelsea Gerbig-Bedoya <chelsg808@icioud.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 11:20PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom chelsg808@icioud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
OO ^ 73
1 O
O
C31
ZO
c=
mv/«
-<
oo -n
mrn <9 ao
w
1
received
WZ/JULIili\nS;08
OFriCE OF TH^
COUNTY cler '
HAWAn HOTEL
July 14,2022 ●\ I. 1 IAN r i:
I \
Gerard C. Gibson
President
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building
200 South High Street,8thFloor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: Hawaii HotelAllianceOppositionto Bill21,CDl ,FD1 (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Members of the County Council,
Mahalo forthisopportunityto providetestimonyinadvance of theCounty Council’sJune 21,2022
meeting.Maui’s lodgingindustryisdeeplycommitted to itsstewardshiproleforthe localenvironment—
includingtheprotectionof Hawaii’snativeseabirdspecies—but ifenactedBill21,CDl, FDl’s outdoor
lightingfixturerequirementswould impose impractical,ambiguous and unsaferequirementson
businesses(and residents)throughouttheCounty which run countertotheguidanceof stateand federal
agency expertsinthisspace.
For the reasonsour testimony willexpand upon below, the Hawaii Hotel Alliancemust regretfully
oppose Bill 21. CDl. FDL
Bill21.CDl, FDl Conflictswith PrevailingExpertOpinion:
Stateand federalagencieswith expertiseon what constitutesappropriatemeasurestoprotectendangered
seabirdshave developedcorrespondinglightminimizationguidelines.Importantly,theseguidelineswere
includedinAppendix E to theKauai SeabirdHabitatConservationPlan(KSHCP, orPlan)’—aPlan
preparedin2020 by the U.S. Fishand WildlifeService(USFWS) and theHawaii Departmentof Land
and NaturalResources(DLNR). This Appendix includesrequirementsrelatingtotheplacement,angling
and shieldingof lights,as well as otherkey lightingmitigationmeasures.At thetime the KSHCP was
prepared,severalgroups asked theagenciesto alsoimpose lightspectrumrequirementssimilartothose
found in Bill21,CD 1,FD1. Itisimportantto underscoretheexpertsattheseagenciesdeclinedtodo so.
Bill21.CDL FDl IgnoresEstablishedSafeW Parameters:
The wellbeingof our lodgingguestsand employees alikeisoftheutmostimportance,and somethingthat
should not be unduly compromised inanythingadoptedby theCounty viaBill21,CDl, FDl. There are
^See Attachment,"KSHCP Appendix E.
9359103.1
The Honorable AliceL. Lee,Chair ^
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Fernandez,’Vicfe-Chair
Maui County Council
Page 2 - ■ ■■
\' ■
human safetybenefitsof lightswith shorterwavelengths,includingthattheycreategreatercontrastand
enhance
peripheralvision—yet Bill21, CD 1,FD1 does not properlyaccount forthiscriticaldynamic. Conversely,
recognitionof human safetyneeds ispresentwithinstateand federalagency lightminimizationguidelines
forprotectingendangered seabirds,and the KSHCP itselfrequiresappropriatelightinglevelstipulations
forparticularlightfunctions—recognizingthe standardspreparedby theIlluminatingEngineering
SocietyofNorth America (lESNA). More specifically,the lESNA standardsprovidelightlevel
recommendations forseveralapplications,includingparkinglots,walkways and roads—again, something
forwhich Bill21, CDl, FDl does not properlyaccount.The County should not be requiringlightlevels
be lessthan theserecognizedand patternedilluminationstandardsforhuman safety,which Bill21, CDl,
FDl would concerninglydo.
Exacerbatingtheseconcerns isthe factthatBill21,CDl, FDl would newly apply itsprovisionsto
"[tjemporaryhoteland condominium beach securitylighting”and ”[s]afetyand securitylightingfor
waterfeatures,” which were previouslyexempt inbroadscope.This could increasesafetyhazards for
hotelguestsand make itimpossibleforsecuritystaffto implement safetyor securitylightingattheir
hotelsand resorts,even temporarilytoresolvepressingsafetymatters.
Bill 21. CDl. FDl Contains Unworkable. Unsubstantiated Provisions:
A criticalrequirementwithinBill21, CDl, FDl would be thatalloutdoorlightingfixturesmust "limit
shortwavelengthcontenttono more thantwopercentof bluelightcontent” (with "bluelightcontent”
definedas "theratioof theamount ofenergy emittedby the outdoor lightifxturebetween 400 and 500 nm
dividedby theamount ofenergy between 400 and 700 nm ”).Such a standardwould be impossiblefor
most—if not all—residents and businesses to adhere to.
The shortwavelength contentmeasurement specifiedinBill21,CDl, FDl isnotsomething thatis
typicallyprovidedby lightbulb and fixturemanufacturers,nor isitincluded on the labelsfortheir
products,so one would be unable to detemiine ifnew lightstheypurchaseeffectivelycomply withthe
law.Most businessesand residentslacktheequipment and expertisethatwould be necessaryto perfonn
thecalculationsnecessarytodeterminecompliance,allwhile stateand federalagencieshave yetto
determineifthereisscientificsupportto suggestthisrequirementisbeneficialforseabirds.Stateand
federalagenciesknowledgeableaboutendangeredseabirdprotectionhave notrecommended adopting
thisforalloutdoorlighting,which means Bill21,CDl, FDl isagaina troublingoutlier.
Moreover, requiringall(exceptneon) outdoorlightsto be filteredlightemittingdiode bulbs(LEDs) is
concerningon added grounds,as LED filtersarenotcommonly used and arenotwidely available.Per the
County’sDeputyCorporationCounsel,^thereisonlyone vendor who arguablysellssuch filters,yet
everyoutdoorlightintheCountywould requireone—presentingcosttrepidations,supplyanxieties,and
even worriesover such a productvoidinglightmanufacturerwarrantiesgiven thisalterationof intended
use.All fora practiceoutsideof what expertswould constituteas necessary.
^See Memorandum, "Ordinanceon ProtectingSeabirdsfrom Outdoor LightingBiilNo. 21 CDl (2022)" (May 24,
2022}.
Page 2 of 3
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Page 3
Further,Bill21, CDl, FDl would take effectimmediately forallnew or newly replacedlightingfixtures,
and provideonly a three-yeargraceperiodforexistingfixtures.Given thenumerous compliance
challengespresent,thiswould createimmediate difficultiesforbusinessessuch as hotelsand resortswith
large
numbers of outdoorlightingfixtures.And even a three-yearperiodmay not be enough time to comply,
particularlywith stipulationslikethoseforbluelightcontentand filteringthatarestymiedby present
manufacturerspecificationsand availabilities.
Concluding Remarks:
In sum, the lodgingindustryon Maui issteadfastlycommitted to protectingHawaii’snativeseabird
species,includingby minimizing lighting.When one minimizes lightingthough,itisalsoimportantthat
human safety—namely thesafetyof our guestsand employees—is not compromised, especiallywith
impracticaland burdensome requirementsthatdo nothold demonstrated,expert-validatedbenefits.
Bill21, CDl, FDl issimply not a sensibleapproach to the important protectionof Hawaii’s native
seabirds,especiallygiven that alternativeoptions are available.One logicaloptionwould be forMaui
to adopt requirementssimilarto those includedinthe KSHCP’s Appendix E, which reflectsmindful
policiesestablishedby subject-matterexpertsfrom USFWS and DLNR. Another optionwould be to
impose a correlatedcolortemperaturerequirement,astheStateimposeson itsown agencies(this
measurement istypicallyincludedon LED lightbulb labels).^Any new requirementsshouldalso
preserveexistingexemptions and allow enough leadtime forcompliance.
For the many reasons articulatedin our testimony, the Hawaii Hotel Alliance urges the County
Council to rejectBill21, CDl, FDl and instead pursue an alternativeconservation pathway.
Without such action,therisksand harms broughtaboutby Bill21,CDl, FDl’s requirements—^to
residents,businesses,guestsand more—^will greatlyexceedany benefitthatmay possiblybe attained.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
3
Gerard C. Gibson
President
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
^ See Hawaii Revised Statutes Section 201-8.5.
Page 3 of 3
APPENDIX E: Guidelines for Adjusting Lighting at Facilities
1. Guidelines for Adjusting Lightingat Facilities
This appendix provides detailedguidelinesto inform minimization measures that can be
customized to address an array of possiblelightingissuesat Participantfacilities.A lighting
minimization plan to achieve the maximum extent practicablewillbe included ineach
ParticipantPIP.
These guidelinesrepresent best availablescience at the time of KSHCP permit issuance.Over
the lifethe plan,likelynew information and new technologieswillbe available,and this
appendix may be updated accordingly.
Not alllightingguidelinesare appropriateforalltypes of facilities.Some represent long term,
infrastructuresolutions,and others may be implemented on a seasonal basis.
1.1.Deactivate Non-Essential Lights
Prioritizationof seabird and honu lightattractionminimization measures involvesevaluating
lightneeds to determine ifnon-essentiallightscan be deactivatedduring the seabirdfallout
season (September 15 to December 15) and turtlenestingseason (May 15-December 15).
Deactivatingthe lightsavoids the potentialfor lightattractionthat those lightscould otherwise
cause. Turning offa subset of lights,both unshielded and shielded,during the falloutseason
(September 15 to December 15) can assistwith minimizingthe riskof seabirdlightattraction,if
those lightsare not necessary.IntheirPIPs,Applicantsmust provide rationaleforany facility
lightsthat cannot be deactivatedduring seabirdfalloutseason, and detailwhat other
minimization practiceswillbe implemented on lightsthat willremain illuminated.The
regulatoryagencies willreview the evaluation and justificationas provided in applicant PIPs.
Similarly,turningout lightsthat shine directlyon beaches during the turtlenestingseason (May
15-December 15) can prevent hatchling disorientation.Avoid use of the following lamp styles
on beachside or shore perpendicularto sidesof a structure:privatebalcony lights,up lights;
decorativelighting,not necessary for human safetyor security;pond lights;and beach lighting.
Timers or other similar devices should be used to ensure the selectedlightsremain offduring
the turtlenesting season. This measure may require the installationof independent light
switches. Conversely,to prevent accidentalactivation,lightfixturescan be removed forlights
that willno longer be needed at a facility.
1.2.InstallFullCut-off LightFixtures
A fullcut-offfixturerefersto a lightfixturewhich that does not shine lightabove a 90 degree
horizontalplane. For lightsnecessary to be activated,fullcut-offfixturesprovide an effective
measure to achieve lightminimization because they prevent lightfrom shiningdirectlyupward.
These types of lightshouse the lightbulb up within the fixtureso that no bulb protrudes below
(Figure1). Such fixturesmust be mounted at appropriate angle so they point directlydown to
the ground. Many lightmanufacturers provide lightfixtureinformation along with the light
specificationsto indicateifa fixtureisa fullcut-offdesign. The internationalDark Sky
Association(www.darksky.org) isa good source forinformationon fullcut-offlightsand
provides additionalreferences to lightengineering resources and lightmanufactures.
Figure 1: Examples of fullcut-offlightfixtures.Source: www.darkskv.org.
Along shorelines,exteriorfixtureson the seaward (makai)and the shore perpendicularsidesof
the building(and on the landward sideof the buildingifthey are visiblefrom the beach) should
be down-litfixtures,fullyshielded and fullcut-off,louvered, or recessed fixturesthat do not
have reflective inner surfaces. These fixtures should use low wattage bulbs (e.g.,<50w). All
exteriorfixtureson the landward (mauka) side of the buildingshould be directed downward
only (Witherington & Martin 2003).
1.3.Shielding LightFixtures
This minimization measure aims to achieve the functional equivalent of a fullcut-offlight
fixtureby installinga shield,visor,hood or similaron an existinglightfixtureto prevent light
from shiningupward and reducing trespass.Inadditionto the shielding,to achieve the
functional equivalent of a fullcut-offfixture,a lightfixtureshould be adjusted so that itpoints
directlydown perpendicularto the ground to createa level,horizontalplane between the
fixtureand the ground, and have the bulb housed withinthe lightfixture(Figures2 & 3). Reed
et al.(1985) suggest that in areas where other lightsources are rare,the shieldingof principal
lightswould likelyhave a largereffectindecreasingseabird lightattraction.
Figure 2: Installationof an appropriately sized floodlightshield.Source: www.darkskv.org.
Shielded Floodlight
.S*
Tosk Area
^ TaskArea
f I'
Waste Light. Light Trespass
1o>
Figure 3: Before and aftereffectsof shieldingand lightmanagement designed to minimize light
attractionriskto seabirds and to decrease lightpollution.Source: www.darkskv.org.
1.4. Angle Lights Downward
Angling and repositioninglightspresents a potentialalternativeto shieldingor replacinglight
fixturesand may be sufficientto make lightsfullycut-offand eliminatelightshininghorizontally
and vertically(Figure4). To achieve the functionalequivalentof a fullcut-offfixture,a light
fixtureshould be adjusted so that itpoints directlydown perpendicular to the ground to create
a level;horizontalplane between the fixtureand the ground, and have the bulb housed within
the lightfixture.Tree strapdownlights may be used to minimize seabirdlightattractionunless
turtlesmay be present on the adjacent beach.
4
Figure1-: (a)Wall mount cylinderdown-light,(b)bollardswith downward-directed louvers,and (c)
sign lightsangled downward. From
http://mvfwc.com/media/418417/SeaTurtle LiEhtineGuidelines.pdf(FWC 2011).
1.5. Place Lights Under Eaves
Lightfixturesplaced under buildingeaves can achieve the functionalequivalent of a fullcut-off
fixture.The architecturaleave acts as shieldto prevent lightfrom shiningdirectlyupward.
1.6.ShiftLightingAccording to the Moon Phase
This minimization measure addresses lightingfor which the need, or purpose, for the lighting
can be shiftedintiming each yearto coincide with the moon phase. Because a reduction in
lightattractionhas been correlatedwith the fullphase of the moon (Reed et al.1985; Telferet
al.1987) lightsfor essentialfunctions,and for which that function can be shiftedintiming,
should coincide with the fullphase of the moon and avoid the dark phase of the moon. Itis
important to note that a fullmoon that isobscured by heavy cloud cover could simulate the
dark phase of the moon. By not activatingthose lightsduring the dark phase of the moon the
effectof those lightsisreduced. Examples of activitiesthat could be minimized with this
measure include scheduling of nighttime events,such as festivalsor sporting events.
1.7. InstallMotion Sensors for Motion-activated Lighting
Motion sensors switch lightson only when triggered,thereby limitingthe time that the light
stays on and reducing itspotentialfor seabird lightattraction.Ifa sensor lightisrequired for
securitypurposes, the lightequipped with the sensor should be at low lightlevels.For
example. LightEmitting Diode (LED) streetlightsand parking lotlightscan be activatedwhen
needed and dim when no activityisdetected nearby. However for those fixtures,fullcut-off
designs or the functionalequivalents are recommended because of the possibilityof light
attractionoccurring when the motion-sensor lightisactivated or in the event that the motion
sensor equipment malfunctions and the lightremains on.
Where motion sensors are impractical(eg at sportingevents),stadium lightsshould be turned
offas soon as the publicleaves the stadium.
1.8. Decrease Lighting Levels
This measure addresses lowering lightintensitylevels(e.g.,measured inlumens) while still
meeting the need to safelycomplete tasks and serve the purpose of the light. Guidance on
standards forthe appropriate lightinglevelfor a particularlightfunctionshould be followed as
provided by the appropriateagency or professionaland technicalorganization. For example
the IlluminatingEngineering Society of North America (lESNA) provides recommendations for
lightlevelsfor severalapplicationsincludingparking lots,walkways, and roads. In addition
individualentitiesmay have standards and best practicesfor lightingneeds.
For many applicationswhere lightingisneeded, brighterlightingmay not always provide the
best lightingfor the needed function. Itisoften the case where reduced lightinglevelscan
provide for the needed function of the lighting.For example, forsecuritypurposes overly
brightlightstend to create blindspots,or very dark shadows, outsidethe litarea that preclude
effectivevisibility.Well placed, but reduced lightingcan provide for more effectivesecurity.
Therefore, when Participantsseek to enhance onsitevisibilityfor security,while reducing riskto
seabirds,the appropriate reductionof lightlevels(alongwith shieldingand re-anglinglights)
forms a startingpoint to accomplish both purposes.
1.9.Decrease Visibilityof InteriorLights
Facilitieswith largeand/or numerous windows, tallbuildingprofiles,or largeglassfacades may
alsopose a riskof lightattractionto Covered Seabirdson Kaua'i.The following measures are
based, in part,on effortsin citiesinCanada and the mainland USA to decrease harmful effects
of buildingson birdsand apply to seabirds in that they can decrease the amount of light
escaping from within buildings(Cityof Toronto 2007; Evans Ogden 2002):
● Installscreens or shades over largewindows that are lowered nightlyduring the fallout
season;
● Modify buildingsand decrease or eliminatelightglow from withina facility;
● Create glassopacity to prevent the escape of internallight.Tinted glassor filmwith a
visiblelighttransmittance value of 45 percent or lessshould be appliedto allwindows
and doors within lineof sightof the beach;
● Installphysicalscreens outside a building;
● Installlandscapinginfrontof largewindows;
● Close allwindow blindsafterdaylighthours untilsunrise;
● Stagger the operation of lightsin the evening or morning hours so that not alllightsare
turned on at once; and
● Maximize the number of offices or indoor rooms that turn offalllightsaftersunset;
● Place reminder noticeson switches to turn out lightsor draw curtains/blindsin
oceanfront rooms. This should include coastal areas that are on the perpendicular sides
of the structure;
Turn offroom and lanailightingthat are not needed;a.
b. Relocate moveable lamps away from windows that are visiblefrom the beach;
and
Close opaque curtainsor blindsafterdark to block insidelightfrom shining
outside.
c.
1.10.Use Light-lessTechnologies
Where conditionsand facilityneeds permit, technologies that do not use light,such as closed-
circuittelevision(CCT) with infraredilluminators,may be effectivelyemployed to "see" at night
thus enabling some of the lightsto be turned off.For example, any fenced areas or the dark
sides of facilitiescan be monitored with CCT so that lightsdo not need to be used or installed.
1.11.Plant Vegetation Around Lightsto Reduce LightVisibility
Trees and shrubs can be planted so that they over-arch lightsor shieldside visibilityof lights
along the coast or along a ridge,for example. Whether the lightsare mounted on 20-foot poles,
walkways, or within landscaped areas,having adjacent or overarching vegetation would further
reduce the riskof seabird lightattractionthat any residuallightscattermay pose. Long-term
planning and maintenance of screening vegetation isencouraged, where appropriate to the
uses and needs of the affected lights.
1.12.Lower Height of Lights
Lightthat islow in height has potentialto reduce the effectof lightattractionbecause lower
lightsmay be lessvisibleto passingseabirds.Installingground-level lighting,such as along
walkways, and reducing pole heightcan decrease lightwaste and trespass.
1.13. Use Longer LightWavelengths
In coastalareas,use of acceptable lightssuch as:LPS 18w, 35w, red, orange or amber LEDs
(truered,orange or amber diodes,but not filters),true red neon, and other lightingsources
that produce lightwavelengths of 560 nm or longer (Witherington et al.2014). Long
wavelength lights,e.g.,those that produce lightthat measures greater than 560 nanometers on
a spectroscope, are required for allconstruction visiblefrom and adjacent to sea turtlenesting
beaches. Turtlesare most sensitiveto shortwavelengths of light,probably because they livein
a marine environment that filtersout long wavelengths. Green turtlesare leastattractedto
longer wavelength lightinthe yellow-orange to red end of the spectrum (630 to 700 nm)
(Witheringtonand Martin 2000). Inthe absence of other lightsources, however, turtlesmay
stillbe attractedto long wavelength light.
Filtersdesigned to exclude transmission of short wavelengths (<570nm) can be fittedto high
pressure sodium (HPS) vapor lights.Such filtershave been found to be effectiveat avoiding
disruptionof nestingfemales (Salmon, 2006) but even filteredHPS lighthas been found to
attracthatchlings,although not as stronglyas unfilteredHPS lights(Sellaet al,2006). Filtering
alone is thus not sufficient to avoid attraction and disruptionof hatchlingorientation.Bright
white lightfixtures,such as metal halide,halogen, fluorescent,mercury vapor and incandescent
lamps, are not approved for beachside or shore perpendicular sidesof a structure.Limiteduse
of shorterwavelength lightsmay be approved inareas where directand indirectlightor glow
could not possiblybe visiblefrom the beach due to installationof opaque "lightfencing"(see
below).
Count^^leH<
John Gillespie<johnny.gillespie(3)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:19 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at HaleWaipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom johnny,gillespie@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Johnny Gillespie
Oti
cn
73
m
o
-< mcn
Oo <T1
m
73 X 9?
Oon-;..-N
o
1
County Clerk
RECEIVEDFrom;
Sent;
PattyG <gorskified@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:32 PM
CountyClerk JUL I5 PH 7:J|«|We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To;
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
[You don'toftenget emailfrom gorskified@gmail.com.Learnwhythisisimportantat OOUNTY CLERK
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Iam a singlemom and 10 year educator inthe the stateof Hawaii,Maui residentfor7 of those years.Unfortunately,
even as a masters graduate, nationallycredentialed professionalinthe highestbracket pay scaleformy job, owning
a home isout of my reach without affordablehousing.There issimply nothing on the market that Ican afford
anymore and the rent has become outrageous, equal to or more than a mortgage in most cases.
The workforce of Maui has been lefthanging while the richor offislandbuyers pay farmore than asking pricefor
availablehomes and have made buying a decent and affordablehome nearly impossible.Where are we supposed to
live? How isthis sustainable for those of us in the community, the ones who keep itrunning,ifwe cannot find
affordablehousing? Workforce willleave indroves or sufferifsomething isnot done soon.
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
Patty Gorski
Sent from my iPhone
1
Countjj^leH<
From:
Sent:
WilliamGreenleaf<bgreenleaf.maui@yahoo.com>
Sunday, July10,2022 8:31AM
County Clerk
AliceL Lee;KellyKing;Kean'i.Rawlins@mauicounty.us;Tamara A. Paltin;Mike J.Molina;
Shane Sinenci;Gabe Johnson;YukileiSugimura
RESO 22-130
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Ioppose the Hale Waipuilani Projectwhich isbeing promoted as a high-densityworkforce housing project
planned fora residentialneighborhood innorthKihei.This area isa notoriousfloodzone.
Buildingin Flood Zones createsproblems. Who Isbeing helped by givingexemptions for thisproject?Developers
willtellyou ithelpsthose in need of homes. That'snot true...itdoes givethem hope, but the danger from flooding
willmake insurancevery expensive and ultimatelynot available.
After the firstflood causes devastation...hope, dreams and any familyfinances willbe washed away.
We need housing, not housing in Flood Zones.
n
O-n
cn
2o
J)
With Respect
BillGreenleaf
m
oH m
-< m
oo "n
mm
a2s
00
1
Count^^^erk
From:
Sent:
WilliamGreenleaf<bgreenleaf.maui@yahoo,com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:54 PM
County Clerk
Shane Sinenci;Gabe Johnson; Tamara A. Paltin;Kean’i.Rawlins@ma uicounty.us;AliceL
Lee;Mike J.Molina;YukileiSugimura; KellyKing
Hale WailpuilaniProject"CR22-61"
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Aloha Council
Ioppose thisproject...
It'sa small pieceof land that isa wet land...
A land swap was offered...!support buildingaffordablehousing, but not in an area
that willlead to problems....
Also,there are quitea few exemptions being requested...toobad that develo
feelit'sok to leave problems behind afterthey do theirwork.
PG
73re■n
5^Tm O
-< mv-n
OMahalo
BillGreenleaf
O *n
m
70X
?:ni Qv/»
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
WilliamGreenieaf<bgreenleaf.maui@yahoo.com>
Sunday, July17,2022 1:28 PM
County Clerk
Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
rm writinginoppositionto thisproject.
This isa flood zone and should be put inconservation.Iunderstand MauiCounty has
Offereda landswap...that'sa blessingthatwillsolvethisproblem...
Itriedto testifylastweek and Igot an email saying itwas not delivered
Aloha
BillGreenieaf
1
Count^CIeH<
From:
Sent:
Laura Gyori <lavendermaui@outlook.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 11:14AM
County Clerk
OPPOSE the Hale Waipuilanihousingdevelopment at 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad. Kihei
Refer to "CR22-61"
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom lavendermaui@outlook.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha County Counciland Mayor,
I OPPOSE the Hale Waipuilani housing development at 16 E.Waipuilani Road. Kihei Refer to "CR22-
61".
“The "Hale Waipuilani"projectwould be builtina notorious Flood Zone. Thisisa high-densitypopulation
zone."
The County shouldnot allowmore housingto be builtina floodzone where atsome pointresidentswill
suffer.
VOTE NO to thisproject.
Ask the developerto acceptthe LAND TRADE offeredby Maui.
That is the solution. DO NOT BUILD ON THAT SITE. VOTE TO MAKE IT FOR LAND CONSERVATION ONLY.
Mahalo and pleasevote the conscienceof Kiheiand Maui.
Laura Gyori
Kihei,Maui, HI
Ott
C Ti :xj
r~*
Get Outlook for iOS m
oH m■< moo "n
<m m
a?;rn
1
Count^Oerk
From:
Sent:
Laura Gyori <lavendermaui@out!ook.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:24 PM
County Clerk
OPPOSE the HaleWaipuilanihousingdevelopment at 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad. Kihei
Refer to "CR22-61"
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom lavendermaui@outlook.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
VOTE NO
Ifcouncilvotes yes to thisdevelopment, itshould be WITHOUT subsidiesfrom the County budget or waiver of fees.
That isthe only way to be sure thatfloodcontrol,density issuesinthe area,and immediate neighborhood impact is
strictlyby code and correct.
Ifthat means speculatorv affordableitwillnot matter. As itstands,affordableisbut a wish and buildercost savings.
BEST solution is move itelsewhere.
Laura Gyori
Kihei,Maui
OoOti
Get Outlook for iOS CTi
m
o-< moo
mn
xm
<
m
a
o
1
Count^Clerk F?FiC'F.!VEP
From;
Sent:
Maui Web Design <aloha@mauiwebdesignpros.cotn>
Tuesday,July12,2022 11:38PM
County Clerk
Bill21 CD1 FD1 TESTIMONY FOR JulylS,2022at9:00a.mOFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
im JUL 13 AH 7: <16
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom aloha@mauiwebdesignpros.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
Iwould liketoprovidewrittentestimonyforBill21 GDI FDl.
Bill21 GDI FDl isa superiorpolicyto both the currentlaw and the Mayor's proposal,and 1believeitwould
positivelyimpact our environment.
We need protectnativeHawaiian seabirdsas much as possible from interferenceof onshore sources of artificial
lightnot onlybecauseit'sthe rightthingtodo foranother species,but alsobecause they are a criticalpart of
Hawaii's ecosystem.
Future falloutand death of fledgingand other seabirdscan be greatlycurtailedwith thiscommon sense,science-
based legislation.
Thank you,
Ritama
Ritama Haaga
Maui Web Design Pros
808.866.4077
www.mauiwebdesignpros.com
1
Count^£letJ<
From:
Sent:
Derek Hall<contactderekhall(a)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5:54PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani.
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom contactderekhall@gmail.com.Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Council members.
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We supportaffordablehousing. Because everyone needs a placeto live!.
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Have some humanity please.
Mahalo,
Oc
73Derek Hall CTI
m
o●< wn moo TJ
m —I
;ox
xm
m
o
>o
1
County Clerk
—RI^C^VIID
im JUL 15 *H » 2*t
From:
Sent:
Kawailehua Kuluhiwa <kkuluhiwa@hotmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:19AM
County Clerk
Opposition to CR22-61
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toften get email from kkuluhiwa@hotmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha,
My name isKawailehua Halland Iam writinginoppositionto CR22-61, the Hale Waipu'ilaniProject.There are
multiplereasons Ioppose thishousing project.1was born and raisedon Waipui'ilaniRd. and my biggest
concerns with thishousing projectare flooding and trafficwhich leadsitto being a safetyhazard.
Floodinghas been a bigissueinKiheias a whole due to not having the proper drainage system. I'vewitnessed
high water levelson Waipu'ilaniRd. duringstorms on multipleoccasions,and most recentlyeven during small
rainfall.The flooded water can remain stagnant around where thisprojectisbeing considered for days,
sometimes weeks ifthere isdrasticflooding.Additionally,thislocationislocated in a wetland, tsunami
inundation zone and issubjectto future sea-levelrise.
The intersectionat Waipu'ilaniand South KiheiRoad isalready a traffichazard.Often times,Waipu'ilaniRd. is
used as detour route when there isheavy trafficflow somewhere inKiheidue to a trafficaccident,fireor even
Fourth Friday.How willthisroad be able to support increasingcar and pedestriantraffic?There are currently
no sidewalksfor pedestriansto safelywalk. We alsowitnessvehiclesracingthrough thisresidentialarea on a
dailybasisdespitethe 20 mph speed limitand multiplespeed bumps.
Ibelievethere are better-suitedplacesto buildthistype of projectelsewhere.Pleasedo not approve thishigh-
density residentialdevelopment ina dangerous floodzone.
Mahalo for your consideration.
Me Ka Ha'aha'a,
Kawailehua
1
Countj^le^
From:
Sent:
heidi@mindsong.com on behalfof heidi@nalaroo.net
Thursday,July14,2022 9:41 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from heidi@nalaroo.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We supportaffordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Oti
c*n
m
om●< K/i moo--n
m H
:ox
<
m
a?:rn o
KaJ
1
Count^Oerk
KentrieCantero <kentrie.808@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 7:59 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kentrie.808@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Kentrie H Ho Cantero
Executive Assistant
IslandCatering
(808) 446-1798
kentrie.808@gmail.com
QOO 73C*T1 m
o
Ln moo ^0^TJ
m
7; m ao
1
County Clerk -REcaivsn
mi JUL l^lPH 25
From:
Sent:
Nicole Hollern <nikkihollern@hotmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:17 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipjajlp|ijQ£ Qp THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom nikkihollern@hotmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^CletJt
From:
Sent:
hosaka993 <hosaka993@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 7:26 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom hosaka993@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilanil
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my Verizon,Samsung Galaxy smartphone
oo
0-1 :xir
T1r=*
Om
*< mOO
<*n
m9?y;}zz aom
1
DAVID Y.IGE
GOVERNOR
RECOTgS
Zro?^ 13 /W 9kOI
-MATSUBARA
DIRECTOR
STATE OF HAWAII
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & TOURlSiyi
HAWAII HOUSING FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATI
677QUEEN STREET.SUITE300 '
HONOLULU. HAWAII 96B13
FAX: (808)537-0600
IN REPLY REFER TO:
FIGE OF T^
COUNTY CLERK
-04
July 12,2022
The Honorable AliceLee,Chair
Maui County Council
200 SouthHigh Street,8“*Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Subject: Bill107,CDl (2022).A Billforan Ordinance Amending Chapter 2.96 Maui County
Code, RelatingtoAffordableHousing SalesPriceGuidelines
Dear Chair Lee:
The Hawaii Housing Financeand Development Corporation(HHFDC) would liketo offerthe followins
comments on Bill107,CDl (2022). One of the many factorsaffectingthe shortsupplyand high home
pricesin Hawaii isgovernment regulationthatlimitstheabilityofthehousingmarket to createtheunits
necessaiyto meet demand. According to a recentstudyby UHERO, theaverageregulatoiyburdensin
Hawaii aresignificantlyhigherthan thosefound inany otherstate.Maui countyranked number 6 outof
30 countieswiththehighestmedianhome prices.*
While we supportpursuinghousingpoliciesthataredesignedto promotethedevelopmentof affordable
housing,thisproposalto cap salespricesmay have theoppositeeffect.Itmay have theunintended
consequence of constrainingdevelopment of new for-saleaffordablehousingprojectsby making them
financiallyinfeasibleto build.
For example, under Bill 107 we estimatethatfor 100% AMI households,themaximum pricefora 1-
bedroom unitwould be about $360,000 and the maximum pricefora 2-bedroom unitwould be about
$390,000. Since the per-unitcostof new homes iswellover $400,000,developersmay choosenotto
develop thistype of housingand Maui County’s insufficientsupplyof affordablefor-salehousing may
only worsen over time.
Developerstodaymust contendwithinflation(whichincreasedevelopmentcosts)and higherinterestrates
(which reducerevenuefrom home sales).We respectfullyrecommend thattheCouncilcontinuethedialog
with affordablehousing developersto establishpoliciesand programsthatwillactuallyachieveyour
housing goals.Thank you foryour considerationand theopportunitytoprovidecomments.
SincefeT
Denise Iseri-Matsubara
Executive Director
^ UHERO Study,Apr 2022.Pg.4- https://uhero.hawaii.edu/wp-
conteiU/uploads/2022/04/MeasuringTheBurdenQfHousingRegulationlnH awaii.pdf
Count^^lei^
From:
Sent:
aya iwasaki<aya.beloved@gmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 11:16 PM
County Clerk
Maui County Community Water Authority~ WrittenTestimonyfor meeting July
15th,2022 ^
To:
Subject:
2*^0“n 73
m
I 20You don'toftengetemailfrom aya.beloved@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant o"im-< mAloha,
My name isAya Iwasaki I'm a Ha'iku Resident.
I'mwritinginsupport ofthe Maui Community Water Authority.
Oo <
mm H
7311
xm
Establishinga countywide community water authoritygives us the opportunityto bring in the rightexpertise
and acquire the funding to manage thisprecious resource wisely.As itstands, aging infrastructureand
mismanagement contributeto unacceptable amounts ofwasted water,with major impacts to localecosystems
watersheds, and communities.
GO
Oo
GO
A Maui County Community Water Authoritywould allowus to investinwatershed restorationand repairsand
maintenance to old wasteful infrastructure,develop transparent,efficient,and culturallyand environmentally
responsiblesystems of management, providelocaljobs inresource management, and ensure water security
forallof Maui’s currentand futureresidents.Regional community boards incorporatethe indispensable
knowledge from localcommunities who have an intimateunderstanding oftheirwatersheds and water
systems.
The alternativeisprivate,corporatecontrolover publictrustresourceswithno guaranteeofgood stewardship
or equitable distributionof water or water rates.
Today millionsof gallonsof water per day are being divertedfrom the EastMaui streamsforcommercialuse,for
some years leavinglocalfarmers without water.
Sadly,generationsof kalofarmersgot wiped out because theirwatersourcewas takenaway.Thisnotonlyeffected
theirlivelihood,plantingand farming halo isa Hawaiian practiceand birthright.
There has been a 30 year water leasein placegivingprivateentitiesrightsto divertwater from the EastMaui Rivers
held by Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui IrrigationCo (EMI.)
With the currentleasesetto expire,EMI along with Mahi Pono arenow attemptingto get another30 yearleasefor
our waters which would allow them to divertup to 88 milliongallonsa day from EastMaui Streams.
A8iB/EMI and Mahi Pono/PSP have caused greatharm to thecommunity (includinglocalkalofarmers& the
preservationof Indigenousways),as wellas ecologicalharm by alteringtheessentialmauka to makaiwaterflow.
We cannot affordto perpetuate the status quo. Maui County must do betterto ensure the sustainabilityof our
resources, our'aina, and our communities.
The Community Water Authority would bring the management of our waters back to the residentsof Maui.
Mahalo foryour time and effortsforour beloved island.
1
Aya Kamanakai Iwasaki
Join the Wild Womb Women Group via FB to stay connected and to receivesome of my favoritequick practicesto come
home to pleasure...search #pleasurebite
Join the Wild Womb Women Group here
www.AvaPapava.com'> S— rn K-
www.facebook.com/AvaPapavainfo
■n
; I
c
2
RECEIVED
mi JUL i‘i w » 10
From:
Sent:
Maui_County Council_mailbox
Thursday, July14,2022 8:33 AM
OCC Legislative
FW: LightPullution
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
Forwardingas testimonyon Bill21. Thank you!
OriginalMessage—
From: John jangwong <johnjangwong(5)hotmail.com>
Sent:Thursday,July14,2022 7:29 AM
To: Maui_County Council_mailbox <county.council@mauicounty.us>
Subject:LightPullution
[You don'toftenget emailfrom johnJangwong@hotmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Stop the lightpollution!
Save the sea birds.
John J
Kihei
Sent from my iPad
1
Count^Clerk I'
p.£r,F
mi JULl^lPH H=25
● f
TaylorJerome <taylor.n.cohen@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:20 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing atHale OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from taylor.n.cohen(g)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Taylor Jerome
1
Count^Cletj<
From:
Sent:
lesiiejohnsen <mauimum@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:42 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom mauimum@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
OoOti 7)C-T?
m2:0 om
Un moo T1
<m
?3:r
xn
m
o
00
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
ErikaKawehi Kaaa <kawehi.kaaa@gmail.com>
Sunday, July17,2022 12:18PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kawehi.kaaa@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordable housing at Hale Waipuilani! Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing forlocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
1
KA'AKAKAI KAAHUI
kalkaahui@gmail.com
RECEIVED
ZOHJli 15 PM 12^33
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Maui County Chair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
DEAR MAUI COUNTY COUNCILMEMBERS,
My brother,John Kaahui, and iare currentlyattending Seabury Halland are servingon
the Maui Youth Council. In our most recent Youth Council meeting, \A/eheard from
CouncilmemberTamara Paltin,who expressed to us brieflyher historyinthe Maui
community, her interestinthe Planning Department, and even how she rose to become
a Councilmember. Councilmember Paltin offered us a clearerunderstanding of the
formulation process of Billsand then the members of our Youth Council were
tasked/encouraged to perform researchon a Billwhich could benefitthe Maui
community.
Since our recent Youth Council meeting, my brother and Ihave learned about the
proposed Bill107, which touches on our one of our biggestconcerns forMaui's future:
affordablehousing.Severalmembers of the Youth Councilhave expressed an interestin
findingway{s) to improve on the criticalshortage of affordablehousing inMaui.
My brother and Iboth believethat thiswould be an idealBillto researchas a collective
inour Maui Youth Council.We, as youth lookingto our future inMaui, willbe most
impacted by the housing shortage which thisBilladdresses.
John and Irespectfullyask you, the Members of the Maui County Council,to allow the
Maui Youth Council the opportunity to research thisBilland present to you our findings
within the time designated by our Youth Counciltimeline.
Thank you for your serviceand for your guidance instructuringa good futureforMaui.
Sincerely,
Ka'akakai Kaahui
John Kaahui
Count^£Ierk
From:
Sent:
Debra Kahula <debrakahula@aol.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 5:15 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom debrakahula@aol.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
3
oo
70
C"n m
o
m-<
OO 3c■n
mmH
m
OV/l
1
RECEIVED
nZlJli15 AH 8=03
7-14-2022
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Maui County CouncilMembers.
Pm heretoprovidemy reasonstowhy I oppose theHale WaipuilaniHousing Project.
- This proposed projectislocatedina NATURAL BASIN as itstands.Ifthisprojectis
accepted,thedeveloperwillbuilda retentionbasinon sitetomitigatesurfacerun-off/flooding
from thisproperty.Digging 2 feetfrom gradeyou willhitthewater tablebelow. That would
mean the retentionbasin needs to be empty or dry to functionproperly.Then thatwould also
mean “Fill” will be used to fillthe water table below and most likelythe springcavitiesbelow
that flows from Waiohuli mauka to Waiohuli makai. ACCOUNTABILITY isurgenthere when
thenaturalresource“The Wai” iscompromised and thecontinuityof natures“Circleof Life”is
disruptedand cut-off.ThisisHEWA!!
- Pleasechoose a “Land Swap”. I didhearthereisa parcelintheMaui Lani areathatwould
qualifyto be used forAffordableHousing. Itisonly a 15 min. drivefrom Maui Lani to
WaipuilaniGulch. Adding 15 min. ofyour time to driveismanini and thePONO direction
moving forward. Keep thisWaipuilaniparcelopen forconservation.
- Work on theCounty parcelnexttotheKihei PoliceStationfora much largerAffordable
Housing Project.For approvals,permits,etc.,alltheDepts.can expeditethenecessary
approvals.Developers do it,so can everyone elseifAffordableHousing ismuch needed right?
-Any housing projectthatisbuiltherewillfloodand add more floodingtothesurrounding
propertiesand roadways. EngineeringDegree isnotrequiredhere. The residentsthatliveon
Waipuilaniand residentsof Kula Kai thatknows thehistoryofthefloodingsituationinthis
wahi. knows!
Commit to a Land Swap istherightdecision!We arenot loosingtimetoputpeopleinthese
AffordableProjects.What we areloosingistheenvironmentnaturehas createdforKula Kai‘s
kuleana. “What we do totheAina willimpact theKai”
Vote “NO” to thisprojectwillimprove and benefitallof us inthenearfuturethrough
education,relationships,trustand solutiondrivenforour communitiesand theenvironment.
Mahalo foryour consideration,
Vernon K. Kalanikau
Count^^letJ<
Russell Kallstrom <rkkallstrom@hotmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 9:47AM
County Clerk
WrittenTestimony inSupport of Ceremonial ResolutionNo. 22-169
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom rkkallstrom@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha-
My name isRussellKahikinaokala Akaka Kallstrom and in my personalcapacityas a member of the Molokai
Community Iwould liketo extend my heartfeltcondolences to the 'ohana of ColetteMachado. Colettewas an
activistand advocate for Molokai- she was a founding member of The Molokai Land Trustwhich has protectedover
1600 acres of Molokai coastline.She was a key advocate for the Papakilo Database projectspearheaded by OHA
that houses the largestIndigenouslanguage libraryinthe world,which isin'oleioHawai'i. Both have impacted me
greatly,but 1must admit when Iheard the news of her passing,my firstthought was not of these or any of her many
publicaccolades,but how much she loved my daughter. She was a woman of faithinJesus and she constantly
supported and prayed for my daughter and for us through some terriblyrough times and Ihonor and aloha that. I
recallthe Scripture,"Pomaika'ika po'e make, ke make iloko o ka Haku, ma keiahope aku: he 'oia'i'o,wahi a ka
'Uhane, iho'omaha lakou iko lakou luhi;a ke hahai nei no ho'ika lakou mau hana me lakou.''(Rev 14:13)<Blessed
are the dead, that hereafterdie inthe Lord. For truly,says the Spirit,they willrestfrom theirtoil;and theirdeeds
willfollowafterthem."> And that,rightlyso,iswhat today and thisresolutionisabout, allowingthose deeds to
finallycatch up to her. Iknow that inthe end, we are judged by how much we loved. And Itestifyshe loved greatly.
Aloha ke Akua. Mahalo Myron, allthe 'ohana,counciland testifiers.
oo
O *11
<^Z!
“?m
73
m
o
m-<
OO 3TJ
mro● ●
Qw
f,-
1
Count^£le^
From:
Sent:
Dawn Kaluakini<dkaluakini@gmail.com>
Sunday, July17,2022 8:27 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don’toftengetemailfrom dkaluakini@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingforlocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalol
1
RgCEiVfaP
im JUL !4 PH 4:25
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Lena Kamai <lkamai.onmaui808@gmai[.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:14 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingatHalef^liOiJfarOf’ THECOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom Ikamai.onmaui808@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmembers,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
JustinKanakaole<kanakaole1106@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 4:46AM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftengetemailfrom kanakaolell06(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
OO
O m
C"n
50
73
m
o
-< Vn m
oo <se
mm -1
73'X
7K.TI oo
xz
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
LindenKanamu <lindenkanamu808@gmail.com>
Saturday,July16,2022 4:10 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom Iindenkanamu808@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingforlocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahaio!
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Twin Oaks Capital<info@twinoakscap.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 1:22PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom info@)twinoakscap.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Charlie Kao
616.378.5044
Twin Oaks Capital
www.twinoakscap.com
0~n
CZ'Tl
73
m
om
■< moo “2 <*n
m
XX
m O
o
1
Count^Gerk
From:
Sent:
Barb Kapua <barb.kapua@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5;26 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom barb.kapua@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
S
OO
O
m
zo o”fm mvn-<
OO <Ti
mm-*
XX Oui
1
Count^^leHt RECL::'fSiii^
m JlilM PH 25
From;
Sent;
Mary M. Kerstulovich,R(S)<mary@hawaiilife.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:20 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale W^i^ijaj^g Qp JHE
COUNTY CLERK
To;
Subject;
[You don'toftenget emailfrom mary@hawaiilife.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Council-members
As a small business owner here on our island who has 7 employees who allrent and faced recent rent hikes.THIS ISA
PROBLEM. Ifwe can'tkeep our localresidentshere who isgoing to be left.Please support workforce housing
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Mary M KerstulovichR{S)
Your Maui Real Estate Agent
Hawai'i Life Real Estate Brokers
808-283-4688
1
CountjrClerk REOLiVCD
mi JUL |i| Afl9= 10
From:
Sent:
CherylKing <cking4@hawaii.edu>
Thursday, July14,2022 8;32 AM
County Clerk
testimony insupport of Bill21 (CD1 FD1)
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom cking4@hawaii.edu.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha e County CouncilMembers!
My name isCheryl King,a Seabird BiologyTechnicianwith the Maui Nui SeabirdRecovery Projectand 1alsorun the
Hawaiian HawksbillConservation projectunder the Hawai'iAssociationforMarine Education and Research. While
working as a marine biologistforover 25 years (inHawai'isince1999),I'vewitnessed firsthand countlessincidencesof
the negative effectslightinghas on sea turtlesand seabirdsspecifically.Human lightingoverridestheirnaturalinstincts
during many crucialstages of theirlives.Every death and injurycaused by human lightingshould have been preventable
with smarter lightingchoices.
There are so many impacts facingour naturalworld everyday,and making our lightingwildlifefriendlyisone ofthe
easiestactionsthat everyone can controlevery day. There are so many solutionsout thereand readilyavailable.
Sometimes it'sas easy as turningoffthe switch! It'sthe leastwe can do as we tryto co-existwith nativewildlife,who
inhabitedthese islandslong before humans and completely deserve protecting.
Ifullysupport Bill21 (CDl FDl) thataddresses harmful outdoor lightinginorderto protectour dark nightskiesforour
human health,astronomy and our nativewildlife.We trulyappreciateyour hardwork on thisand lookforwardto your
vote of support on July15th.
Mahalo nui loa!
~Cheryl King,MSc.
www.mauinuiseabirds.org
www.hihawksbills.org
www.hamerinhawaii.org
1
Count^£Iedc
From:
Sent:
KellyKing <ktkmaui@me.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 7:34 PM
MauLCounty Council_mailbox;County Clerk
AliceL Lee;Axel I.Beers;EllenB.McKinley;James B. Forrest;Jay Penniman; David
Henkin
Fwd: lightingbillquestion
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Please submit thisforthe July15 CouncilMeeting as additionalinformation on Bill21!
OQ
0-1 73
m
OHVi m< rnoo
^ <"71
4)
m
7^ ”1
rn
Qo
Councilmember KellyT. King
South Maui Residency
Office; 808.270.7108
200 South High Street,8th Floor,Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
Now isthe time to provide inputto update the South Maui Community Plan!https://southmaui-wearemaui.orQ/Qet-involved/
SOUTH MAUI
Begin forwarded message:
Aloha,
LightscertifiedforFlorida'sWildLif©LiQhtiriQC©rtifiC3tionPrOQTSm meetourBill
21 < 2% blue lightrequirement
Hawaii and Maui could justcopy these websites.
Starthere: https://mvfwc.com/conservation/vou-conserve/lightinR/criteria/
There are bigsquare boxes at the bottom of the page you can clickon.One takeyou tothe page ifyou
are a company wanting to get on the certifiedlightlist.One takesyou to compliantlightsfor
residential and commercial customers.
Clickon certifiedfixturesfor property owners ect..: https://mvfwc.com/conservation/vou-
conserve/lighting/criteria/certified/
Clickon walkway lighting:https://mvfwc.com/media/21328/certified pathlights.pdf
On thatpdf clickon the top lighton the 2"''page :https://www.beachsidelighting.com/
1
That isa Honolulu company!
Handy guide: https://mvfwc.com/media/18511/seaturtle-lightingeuidelines.pdf
There are hundreds of compliant lightsfrom dozens of manufactures and suppliers.,allcompliant with
the < 2% blue lightrequirement
2
received
Di.\i 0*0^—
OFFtCcOF^●*'OUN ^hbasing development at 16 E.
Count^Oerk
anFrom:
Sent:
K Martin <ikuwa74@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 9:34 PM
County Clerk
WrittenTestimony to OPPOSE the Hale Waipuilani
WaipuilaniRoad. KiheiReferto "CR22-61"
To:
. ,j
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom ikuwa74@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha we are Walter and OpuulanI Kaauamo Kuluhiwa who have resideat 75 East WaipuilaniRoad forthe past 50 years
datingback toAugust 1,1972.As residentsand propertyowners ofWaipuilaniwe totallyDISAGREE and OPPOSE the
Waipuilanihousing development at 16 E. WaipuilaniRd. We have seen the progressionof Kihei,as a whole to “no end".
Here are our concerns to the matter.
1. Flood, Zone, Area—We consider itthrough because we have seen the resultsaftera very rainyday, floodingthis
street,being mud/ filled,debris/choked and the onset of water retainment at the end of Waipuilani exitingto
South KiheiRoad. Untila couple of years ago, therehas been some correctionmade at thisparticulararea.
However, recently,when we experienced heavy rain,there’sstillthe settlementof water exitingto S. KiheiRd.
We even have picturesof a neighborsson who stood inknee deep water frontingtheirhome. Ittook days forthe
water to dry up. One of the residentsexitingWaipuilanito S. KiheiRd. also builta stone wall and a berm to keep
water out from theirpropertywhen Waipuilanigets flooded.Luckily,we liveon a higher levelenteringour
residence and propertyso when itgets flooded we are not affected.However, some of our neighbors were not so
fortunate because their homes were situated on the same levelas the road so whenever there was heavy rainor
floodthey had to deal with the clean up.
TrafficCongestion: How wonderful itwas to move to Waipuilaniin 1972. DefinitelyNo TrafficCongestion and also
none on S. KiheiRd. Presently,thisroad has been used fordiversionoftrafficwhenever there’sa fire,accidentor
event in Kihei.Sometimes vehicleslineup for4 or 5 hours to get to whatever destinationtheirheaded to when
thishappens, do we need to add to the situationby allowingto buildingthishousing development? It'san A’ole!!
NO to build itsomewhere else because itdoesn’t fithere on our street.This willcommence and add development
on thisroad. Dangerous as itiswhere and when many cars speed up the road (presently20mph) but,peopledo
not heed tothe signs.We know of a neighbors son who was ina hitand run accidentby a speeding car and the
driverdid not render help.The driverwas latercaught,intoxicatedand speeding. Fortunately,good neighbors
who look foreach other rendered to help the young boy and he was hospitalizedand releasedinsatisfactory
condition.
Bike Pathway and Sidewalk. There are none and many bikecyclistutilizethisroad forexercising,going to the
store, bank and etc.
2.
3.
Mahalo fortakingthe time to listento my concerns regardingthishousing development. We hope you listento our
experiences and concerns on thismatter and why we oppose thisproject.
Respectfully,
Walter & OpuulanI Kaauamo Kuluhiwa
1
County Clerk BECSIVSB
ChristopherLaidlaw<claidlaw7635@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 11:15AM
County Clerk
Bill107 CD1 (2022)
From:
Sent: 2022JUL 14 AH1|: 17
To:
Subject: OFFIGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom claidlaw7635@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Chair Lee and members,
My name isChrisLaidlaw and Iam writingto you today to ask you not to support bill107, CDl (2022).Ihave been
working inthe constructionindustryon Maui for17 years,and during thistime Ihave participatedinthe buildingof over
500 affordableor workforce homes. Iam a huge supporterof eitheraffordable,workforce or justreasonably priced
houses forour Maui residents.Unfortunatelyinthese unprecedented times Idon'tthinkthatwe can cut salespricesby
20-25%. Land costsand development costswith allthe permitting and red tape along with risinglaborcostsand the
unforeseen construction material hikes of 25-100% have made itchallengingfora developer/ builderto make a profit
with even the currentworkforce salespricing.Ido not want companies gettingrichoffof providingreasonablepriced
houses forour Maui people but 1know that nobody isgoing to go through years of tryingto develop workforce housing
ifthey are going to take a losson the project.Iwant the buildingof affordablehouses to be sustainablebut afterdoing
the numbers with current cost of land and construction versus proposed new salesprices,Ido not see thisworking. I
hope thatthe stateand county can help reduce land and development costs because 1do not see a way to reduce
construction costs by 20-25% while stillproviding a safe and well builthouse. Iliveinwaikapu gardens builtby Spencer
Homes and have seen and experienced firsthand what a differencebeing able to buy a affordablypricedhouse can
make on families.Iwant more people to experiencethe blessingof buying a home but am worried that developers and
builderswillpullout of the workforce market ifthe numbers don't make sense. 1ask you allto consider the long term
effects that this billcould have.
Thank you foryour time reading thisand foryour serviceto the Maui people.
Chris Laidlaw
47 west makahakaha loop
Wailuku HI 96793
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
Debra Larson <mauioceanblue@gmail.com>
Sunday, July17,2022 2:32 PM
County Clerk
OPPOSE the HaleWaipuilanihousingdevelopment at 16 E.WaipuilaniRoad item # CR
22-61
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom mauioceanblue@gmaII.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
4ello,
My father& Iare both residentsinthe area near the proposed Hale Waipuilani housing
development projectitem # CR22-61.
We are opposed tothisdevelopment formany safety& environmental reasons.
Please consider our followingconcerns as thisprojectwould put my father& HI wildlifeindanger.
● An ingress/egress road to Kauha’a willcreate more trafficon the already busy road.
● The area has an aging infrastructure,no sidewalks, and thisdevelopment willcreate more trafficand
put home owners walking inthe area at risk,especiallythe elderlypopulation,likemy 83 year old father
whom ishearing impaired.Also more dangerous forchildreninthe area that are more focused on
playing than lookingforcars.This oversized development ispoorly placed in a flood plainand notorious
flood zone.
● This high-densityprojectwillincreasetrafficproblems for localresidents and South Maui.
● Trafficproblems would decrease the area safety,by increasingthe number of residentsneeding
evacuation during naturalhazards, tsunamis, etc.
● Increased Trafficreduces the abilityof EMS to access these areas and reduces theirabilityto provide
timelyresponses. This could be lifethreateningformy 83 year old fatherwith a heart condition.
● exemptions should not be allowed to Zoning laws and SMA requirements.
● The projectdoes not solve housing problems forlocalpeople (50 percent or more could be sold to new
residentsfrom the mainland etc).
● Local residentshave informed the Builderabout the potentialharm to Archeological Sites (including
nearshore fishponds) etc.Residents have repeatedly informed Buildersabout floodingissues,traffic
problems, and pedestrian safety issues.
● This projectshould be moved to another area - land swap, 16 E. Waipuilani Road can become a
conservation area
Mahalo foryour consideration.
Debra Larson
1
Count^^Ierk
From:
Sent:
lisa.levangl@gmail.com
Thursday, July14,2022 9:53 PM
County Clerk
CR22-61 Testimony
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftenget emailfrom lisa.levangl@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
Iwas born and raisedin Kiheiand have seen the devastatingimpact of floodinginsouth maui. Iam testifyingagainstand
in oppositionto the Hale WaipuilaniHousing Development.
The impact of floodingina residentialarea,as wellas the environmental wetland that would be destroyed isfar worse
than building"affordablehomes" ina undesirableflood zone. There are much betterareas to buildaffordablehomes.
Mahalo,
Lisa
C“n
“im
m
o
m-< v«n
Oo “n
mm
Tcn
Oo
ui
1
Count^Oerk
From:
Sent:
avivalibitsky<avivawouldgo@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:35 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom avivawouldgo@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahaloi
OO
cll
73
m
o2.0
m-<
oo -n
mtn -H op oo
w
1
Countj(^CIeH<
From:
Sent:
Aubrey Long <kekauilani808(a)yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:37 PM
County Clerk
Opposing projecton Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftengetemailfrom kekauilani808@yahoo.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha I'ma maui and Kiheiresidentallmy life.Ioppose to thisprojecton Waipuilani.Iliveon Waipuilani for 15 plus
years and there'salreadyto much traffic.Also thisisa floodingzone. Every time there'srainup mauka or in Kiheithis
area floods. All the kids know this area to be the flood zone and look forward to driveintothe biggestpuddle in Kihei.
Buildinginareas that'sshouldn't be builtneeds to stop. Listento the people and long term residentsof thisarea.
Mahalo,
Aubrey
OO
O “Ti
C'n Z 5mcr
o
-< m
O
2 "n
mmn
TjX Oo
hO
1
Count^Cle^
From:
Sent:
Amanda MacDowell <anmacdowell@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 2:58 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom anmacdowell@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalol
Sent from my iPhone ooO-n 73C“n
50 mcr
o
-< -C: moo Tl
mm
:^m
w
o
w
1
Count^CletJc
From:
Sent:
Scott MacDowel! <smac008(a)yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:07 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don’toftengetemailfrom smac008(S)yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale
Waipuilani! Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not
market housing foroffshorebuyers. Mahalo!
O T)
c*n
50
72
m
o
moo
<*n
:33X
mop
oo
o
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
oncgirls@gmail.com
Thursday, July14,2022 6:22 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom oncgirls@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
With Aloha
Mahina
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
Soc
O Ti
C2
50
73
m
O
mU1●<
OO <-n
m<3P
o:r X o
o
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
M <marlapet0312@gmail.conn>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:36 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftenget emailfrom marlapet0312(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Ot)
c-n
m
om-< V/l moo--n
m -H m<3?73X
oo
o
1
Count^£IeH< HiCCgiVbU
m juLlii/m(|:10
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Martha E.Martin <mauimartha@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 10:54 AM
County Clerk
RESO 22-130
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom mauimartha@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Pleaseoppose the HaleWaipuilaniprojectbecause itisplanned ina locationthatfloodsand at riskof tsunami damage.
Kiheineeds more affordablehousing,but only builtinfarlessriskylocations.
Since Imoved to Maui in 1963, Kiheihas suffered severe flood damage and safetyproblems. Evacuation isdifficult
\A/henfloodingoccurs. Future floodsare likely.
Better planning for the risksfrom floods and tsunamis iscriticalfor Kihei.
Please oppose RESO 22-130.
Mahalo,
Martha E. Martin
40 Kunihi Lane #226
Kahului, HI 96732
1
County^leH<
From:
Sent:
MichelleMartinek <444.michelle@gmail.com>
Saturday,July16,2022 5:59 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don’toftengetemailfrom 444.michelle@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clet^
mi JUL 1tl PH 25From:
Sent:
M N <maryse0704@hotmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4;16 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale W:
To:
iiir^PEOF THEOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toften get email from maryse0704@hotmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from Outlook <http://aka.ms/weboutlook>
1
Count^CleH<
Rev.Mario Masias <mariomasias425@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:53AM
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
To:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mariomasias425@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Kehei needs affordablehousing forlocalsitsamazing that we are forced out of our beautifulcitybecause of turistsor
greedy landlordspicingthe average familiesout of housing this"flooding" has a solution and that solutionisknown just
make ita partof the buildingprocessto go forward
Mahalo
Reverend Mario Masias
141 Uwapo Rd
Kihei Hawai'i 96753
Q "n
C "n
Hm
70
c* m
o-cr
moo “n
<
m H
7JX
m9?
aoX m
CO
1
Count^Clet^ RfeCSiVFn
2812JJL14 PH 3=53Mark Matsuda <m-matsuda@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:50 PM
County Clerk
FW; CC22-62 AffordableHousing Bill107
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom m-matsuda@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Committee Report No. 22-62; Bill107, GDI (2022)
Chair Lee and Members,
Ido not support Bill107, GDI (2022), in itscurrentform. The lackof affordablehousing forsale isthe
biggest problem when tryingto purchase a home on Maui. From permittingdelays to increases inmaterial
and labor cost,it'snot easy to buildhomes on Maui. Builders have shown thatthey can buildaffordable
housing at the currentsales prices,but lowering the pricesthatthe builderscan sellhouses forwillnot
encourage them to buildmore affordablehousing and willlikelyreduce the number of homes built.To be
productive,regulationsshould be providingincentivesand not deterrents.Please consider leavingthe
affordablehousing sales pricesalone and make housing more attainableby providingfinancialassistanceto
individualbuyers.
Thank you
Mark Matsuda
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Noelle McClure <noellemcclure@uofnkona.edu>
Thursday, July14,2022 5:20 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom noellemcclure@uofnkona.edu.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
M. Noelle McClure, School Director
The Learning Center
noellemcclure@uofnkona.edu
lccv@uofnkona.edu
510-502-4419 (cell);808-345-5882 (schoolphone)
tt
Education is only the most fully conscious of the channels whereby each generation
-C. S. Lewisinfluences the next ft
OO
O-n 72C'“n mcr
’im O
m●< V/l
Oo <
mm
a7:m ●o
1
Count^Cledc
Bruce McDonald <bruce@bruceonmaui.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:02AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom bruce@bruceonmaui.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from Mail for Windows
3OoO T! 73C-n m.^o o< moo *n <
73 .r
mop
Qo
1
Count^£leH<
From:
Sent:
LMc <macca20015@gmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 4:52 PM
County Clerk
Testimony opposing KaleWaipuilani(CR22-61)
TESTIMONY OPPOSING HALE WAIPUILANI.docx
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom macca20015@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Attached, please find my testimony inopposition to thisegregious
development proposal.Iam alsocopying and pasting below in case you
can'topen the word doc.
Mahalo,
Lara McGlashan
TESTIMONY OPPOSING HALE WAIPUILANI
Iam writingthistestimony to vehemently oppose the Hale Waipuilani housing development
proposed at 16 E.Waipuilani Rd. (CR22-61).
Iwas not able to signthe petitionagainstthisdevelopment since Iwas out of town, but very much
wish toaddmy testimonytothedocket.Thisprojectwillbe horriblefor the community, the
environment and the infrastructure of Central KThei. Here iswhy:
Flooding
Since moving to thisarea, Ihave experienced severalfloods,the latestwhich happened as a result
of the storm inthe winter of 2021. Thisstorm brought massive amounts of rainwhich led to
severe floodingand runoff,and huge pilesof heavy mud and debris- some of which stillremain,
almost a year later,piledup likedirt-snow-driftsalong ditchesand ingullies.Entire
streets makua of S. KThei Rd. were covered with mud 1 to 2 feet high.This mud, standing water
and debrissat untended for nearlya week before emergency servicescould come inand remove
itwith plows and heavy constructionequipment. Roads were damaged, people were stranded
and landscapingwas destroyed.
At our home on Kaikane Place (makua of the proposed development site),the entireyard was
under water fora week. Ican only imagine how much longeritwould take the water to recede if
allthat open land was made unavailableto absorb and filterallthat rainfall.
1
Inadequate sewer/water systems
There was alsoa recent incidentwhere inadequate, old sewer and water systems broke and
flooded the entiretyof Waipuliani Rd. makai, largeparts of S. KTheiRd. and some of
Waipuliani makua. Thisflooding happened on and offfor more than two weeks, and caused traffic
issues,a glutof mosquitoes and dangerously muddy drivingconditions.Whether or not ithas
been remediated isunclear;workers did stop the flooding,but to my knowledge, no new pipes or
systems were installedunder the streetto prevent thisfrom happening again.
Which alsoleads to the concern of that many more people adding hundreds of gallonsof water
and sewer waste to the already stressed systems. These systems are clearlyin need of updating,
and itseems foolishto thinkthat adding 28 more homes, 28 more kitchensand possibly50 more
bathrooms willnot cause major problems underground. Burst sewer pipes willbe a health hazard
for people on land and inthe ocean, and a death sentence for adjacent reefsand sea life.
Traffic/Congestion
Currently,the trafficat the intersectionof S. KTheiand Waipuilani isvery dangerous and very fast.
There isa constant lineof carstryingto turn from Waipuilani onto S.KiheiRd.,with no break in
eitherdirectionfor up to 5 minutes. This causes a backup of cars onto Waipuilani,which ishighly
disruptiveto the neighborhood.
What's more, my 9-year-oldson and Iwalk our dog at the park by the ocean inthe evenings,and
at leasttwice a week, we are almost hitby a car whose driverisnot paying attentionto us,even if
we are directlyinthe middle of the streetinthe crosswalk and other cars are stopped to letus
pass. Inthe past year at thisintersection,Ihave personallywitnessed a girlbeing hiton a bicycle,
a touristin a rentalcar hittinga pickup truck,a dog jumping out of a car intotrafficand causing
several collisions,and a car hittinga homeless man's shopping cart as he crossed the road. This
then alsocaused a trafficjam as people triedto help him collectallhisbelongings and get them
out of the street.
Adding dozens more people to an already over-saturated area willmake thistrafficand transit
problem a hundred times worse. Backups on Waipuilaniwillgo allthe way up the streetto LTpoa,
and localpedestrianstryingto crossthe road willbe in even more danger with thisincreasein
trafficand people.
Parking
Even though the projecthas a number of proposed parkingspaces, there willobviously be many
times when there willbe more carsthan there isspace, especiallywhen itcomes to transientsand
tourists.
There willbe nowhere forthese people to park,and they willlikelycreate problems traffic-wise
and parking-wiseon both Kauha'a and Waipuilani.
Local Neighborhood
2
We bought our home inthislocal,residentialneighborhood fora reason.The peoplewho live
here are the workforce of Maui. We are the policeofficers,constructionworkers,gardeners,
writers,painters,trainers,grocery checkers- the infrastructureand the taxpayersthatmake Maui
work. This neighborhood consistsof singleand multi-familyhomes with multiplegenerationsof
Mauians livingand working on our island.
There are no transient accommodations or condos makuo of S. KThei Rd. in our area for dozens of
blocks,and we likeitthat way. We can raiseour familiesina safe,quietarea,and can get to know
our neighbors on a first-namebasis.We can easilylook out for one another and keep the
neighborhood free of crime and trash.
This development of (obvious)vacationrentals,none of which are meant (orpriced)for local
people to purchase, willstressour beloved neighborhood with noise,trash and traffic,and will
change itfrom a quiet,safearea to a placeof parties,transientsand filth.
Of very greatconcern isthe possibilitythatthe county willchange the zoning laws or willgive
these buildersexemptions to accommodate theirproject.Ifthat sortof waiver ispassed itwillset
a very dangerous precedent,and could very well givethe green lightto other such horrible
projects,eventuallyburying thisentireresidentialarea of KTheibeneath commercial,
consumeristic rentals.
Other options, questionable motives
Itismy understanding that these buildershave been given the option for a "land swap," so they
can buildtheirprojectinanother area with fewer issuesand no opposition - and that they have
refusedthisoption.But why? A landtradewillbe of benefitto allparties- we willmaintain our
local,quietneighborhood and the builderswillget to construct theirfor-profitrentals.
Theirmotives are clearlyquestionable,giventheirrefusalto even consider an alternativelocation,
and thiswarrantsfurtherinvestigation.
Itisalso my understanding that the buildersfileda 'counter-petition'to counteract the one drawn
up by the localresidents.What exactlyisthispetition,and who on earth would sign it- except
the builders,theirbankers and theirlawyers?Thisseems likea bunch of legalfluffthrown at the
issueto bury itin red tape, and whatever counter petitionthey conjured up should be discarded
and disregardedcompletely.
Please see the logic,not the $
Maui is overcrowded with transient accommodations. More than 120 flightscome in PER DAY,
and unload tens of thousands of visitorsevery week. New housing such as thisproject isnot
intended to benefitthe people who liveand work here; itisintended for tourism.
Thisarea isa well-known floodzone,and hardscapingseveralmore acres would exacerbate
thisissueby leapsand bounds.
3
Thisdevelopment willexacerbateand alreadybad trafficsituation.Italsowilllikely
breakdown of our already-fragilewater and sewer systems.
cause a
The onlypeople thisprojectwillbenefitare the developerswho are blindedwith greed.And
the only people who willbe harmed are residents.
Allthey see are dollarsigns.
We are trustingthat you willsee the logic.
Please do not allow thisdevelopment to continue.
4
RECEIVEDTESTIMONY OPPOSING HALE WAIPUILANI
Iam writingthistestimony to vehemently oppose the Hale Waipui
proposed at 16 E.Waipuilani Rd. (CR22-61).
OFFICE OF THE
Iwas not able to sign the petitionagainstthisdevelopment since1w^S^blffcIwft^SR^ry
much wish to add my testimony to the docket. This projectwillbe horribleforthe community,
the environment and the infrastructure of Central KThei. Here iswhy:
Flooding
Since moving to thisarea,Ihave experienced severalfloods,the latestwhich happened as a
result of the storm in the winter of 2021. This storm brought massive amounts of rainwhich led
to severefloodingand runoff,and huge pilesof heavy mud and debris- some of which still
remain, almost a year later,piledup likedirt-snow-driftsalong ditchesand ingullies.Entire
streets makua of S. KThei Rd. were covered with mud 1 to 2 feet high.This mud, standing water
and debrissatuntended for nearlya week before emergency servicescould come inand
remove itwith plows and heavy construction equipment. Roads were damaged, people were
stranded and landscapingwas destroyed.
At our home on Kaikane Place {makua of the proposed development site),the entireyard was
under water for a week. Ican only imagine how much longer itwould take the water to recede
ifallthat open land was made unavailableto absorb and filterallthat rainfall.
Inadequate sewer/water systems
There was also a recent incident where inadequate, old sewer and water systems broke and
flooded the entiretyofWaipuliani Rd. makai, largepartsof S.KTheiRd. and some of Waipuilani
makua. This flooding happened on and offfor more than two weeks, and caused trafficissues,
a glutof mosquitoes and dangerously muddy drivingconditions.Whether or not ithas been
remediated isunclear;workers did stop the flooding,but to my knowledge, no new pipes or
systems were installedunder the streetto prevent thisfrom happening again.
Which also leads to the concern of that many more people adding hundreds of gallonsof water
and sewer waste to the already stressed systems. These systems are clearlyinneed of
updating,and itseems foolishto thinkthat adding 28 more homes, 28 more kitchensand
possibly 50 more bathrooms willnot cause major problems underground. Burst sewer pipes will
be a health hazard for people on land and inthe ocean, and a death sentence foradjacentreefs
and sea life.
Traffic/Congestion
Currently,the trafficatthe intersectionof S.KTheiand WaipuilaniIsvery dangerous and very
fast.There isa constant lineof cars tryingto turn from Waipuilanionto S. KlheiRd.,with no
break in eitherdirectionfor up to 5 minutes. Thiscauses a backup of carsonto Waipuilani,
which ishighlydisruptiveto the neighborhood.
What's more, my 9-year-oldson and Iwalk our dog at the park by the ocean in the evenings,
and at least.twicea weeky we are almost hitby a car whose driverisnot paying attentionto us,
even ifwe aredirectlyinthe middle ofthe streetin the crosswalk and other cars are stopped to
letus pass,inthe past year atthisintersection,1have personallywitnessed a girlbeing hiton a
bicycle,a touristjn a rentalcar hittinga pickup truck,a dog jumping out of a car intotrafficand
causing seve'falcollisions,and a car hittinga homeless man's shopping cart as he crossed the
road.Thisthen alsocaused a trafficJam as people triedto help him collectallhisbelongings
and get them out of the street.
Adding dozens more people to an already over-saturated area willmake thistrafficand transit
problem a hundred times worse. Backups on Waipuilani willgo allthe way up the streetto
LTpoa,and localpedestrians tryingto cross the road willbe in even more danger with this
increase intrafficand people.
Parking
Even though the projecthas a number of proposed parking spaces, there willobviously be
many times when there willbe more cars than there isspace, especiallywhen itcomes to
transients and tourists.
There willbe nowhere forthese people to park,and they willlikelycreate problems traffic-wise
and parking-wiseon both Kauha'a and Waipuilani.
Local Neighborhood
We bought our home inthislocal,residentialneighborhood for a reason.The people who live
here are the workforce of Maui. We are the policeofficers,construction workers, gardeners,
writers,painters,trainers,grocery checkers - the infrastructureand the taxpayers that make
Maui work. This neighborhood consistsof singleand multi-familyhomes with multiple
generations of Mauians livingand working on our island.
There are no transient accommodations or condos makua of S. KThei Rd. in our area for dozens
of blocks,and we likeitthat way. We can raiseour familiesina safe,quietarea,and can get to
know our neighbors on a first-namebasis.We can easilylook out forone another and keep the
neighborhood free of crime and trash.
This development of (obvious)vacation rentals,none of which are meant (or priced)for local
people to purchase,willstressour beloved neighborhood with noise,trash and traffic,and will
change itfrom a quiet,safe area to a place of parties,transients and filth.
Of very great concern isthe possibilitythat the county willchange the zoning laws or willgive
these buildersexemptions to accommodate theirproject.Ifthat sort of waiver ispassed itwill
set a very dangerous precedent, and could very wellgive the green lightto other such horrible
projects,eventually burying this entire residentialarea of Kihei beneath commercial,
consumeristic rentals.
Other options, questionable motives
Itismy understanding that these buildershave been given the option for a "land swap/' so they
can buildtheirprojectin another area with fewer issuesand no opposition - and that they have
refused thisoption.But why? A land trade willbe of benefitto allparties- we willmaintain our
local;quietneighborhood and the builderswillget to construct theirfor-profitrentals.
Their motives are clearlyquestionable;given theirrefusalto even consider an alternative
location,and thiswarrants furtherinvestigation.
Itisalsomy understanding thatthe buildersfileda 'counter-petition'to counteractthe one
drawn up by the localresidents.What exactlyisthispetition;and who on earth would sign it-
except the builders,theirbankers and theirlawyers? This seems likea bunch of legalfluff
thrown atthe issueto bury itinred tape, and whatever counter petitionthey conjured up
should be discarded and disregardedcompletely.
Please see the logic,not the $
Maui is overcrowded with transient accommodations. More than 120 flightscome in PER DAY,
and unload tens of thousands of visitorsevery week. New housing such as thisprojectisnot
intended to benefitthe people who liveand work here; itisintended fortourism.
This area isa well-known flood zone, and hardscaping several more acres would exacerbate this
issue by leaps and bounds.
This development willexacerbate and already bad trafficsituation.Italsowilllikelycause a
breakdown of our already-fragilewater and sewer systems.
The only people thisprojectwillbenefitare the developers who are blinded with greed. And
the only people who willbe harmed are residents.
Allthey see are dollarsigns.
We are trustingthat you willsee the logic.
Please do not allow thisdevelopment to continue.
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Jeramia <mcmullin12@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 10:31 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftengetemailfrom mcmullinl2@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We supportaffordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
OO
O 'll
●im
73
m
L o
mVI-<
O
s <o
r* m
ao
w
1
Count^|eH<
From:
Sent:
Abbey McPike <oceanolson@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:56 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom oceanolson(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Abbey McPike
O *n
C'fi
2;o
:x)
mF
om
-< V/1 moo
<*n
mm-T
ao
K>
1
RECEIVED
Chair Alice Lee
County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
imssi m
OhFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
RE: Committee Report No. 22-62;Bill107,CDl (2022)
Dear Chair Lee,
On behalfof my adultchildrenlivingathome who can’taffordany otherhousing,Iam writing
to ask thisCouncil topleaseconsiderdeferringBill107,CDl (2022),which initscurrentform is
suretobe the“nailinthecoffin”of any new effortsby theprivatesectortobuildaffordable
housing forMaui’s working families.
Maui clearlyhas a supplyand demand imbalance of housing thattheCouncilhas notbeen able
to move the needle on. Insteadof artificiallylowering the pricethe developercan sella house
forto well below the actualcostto build it,not includingany profit,Councilshouldbe lookingat
ways to subsizethecostof landand infrastructuretoactuallylowerthecostofthehouse. That is
theonlyway tolowerthepriceand stillgethousingbuilt.
Iknow thatyou know this,havingbeen a formerHousing DepartmentDirector,butwhat Isee
Councildoingisdrivingup thecostof infrastructureby legislatingunnecessaryregulationand
concurrentlyreducingtheinventoryof landavailableforaffordablehousingby moving itinto
open spacetothedelightof thosewho don’twant any growthand wouldjustassoonexportour
children who can’t afford to live here to the mainland.
The constructioncostof the most modest new home barelypencilsatthecurrentsales
guidelines.Reducing thepricewithoutreducingthecost,orwithoutsubsidizingthebuyer,isa
surerecipeforworseningtheimbalancebetween marketand affordablehousing,built.
Pleasereconsiderthe unintendedconsequences of Bill107,wellintentionedas itmay be,by
takingmore timetoconsiderthealternativesproposedby theDepartmentof Housing and
Human Concerns and the adviceand experienceof thosewho aretryinginearnesttobuild
affordablehousing forour children.
Sincerely.
Steve Miller
Count^^leHc
From:
Sent:
TanjaKalaMiller<alohalways@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 9:41AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom alohalways@gmaii.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We supportaffordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
With Aloha Always
Tanja Miller,Realtor(S)
Maui’s Home Match Maker Connecting Hearts and Homes
Mobile: (808) 633-3214
http://mauirealestateohana.com/
RS-78256
oo
On
cn
50
73
m
L o
m<
oo 3 <*n
m
nx Ow
JS
Maui Ghana Real Estate, LLC
30 East Lipoa Street,Suite 4-106
Kihei, HI 96753
1
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
TanjaKalaMiller<alohalways@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 10:06AM
County Clerk
Re;We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom alohalways@gmaii.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Cancel my support,Ijustfound out itison wetlands.
With Aloha Always
Tanja Miller.Realtor(S)
Maui’s Home Match Maker Connecting Heartsand Homes
Mobile: (808) 633-3214
http://mauirealestateohana.com/ oo
RS-78256 m
O20 m-ifti vn
-<
3 ^o
mr-
55 O
Maui Ghana Real Estate, LLC
30 East Lipoa Street,Suite 4-106
Kihei. HI 96753
On Jul15,2022, at 9:40 AM, Tanja Kala Miller<alohalwavs@gmail .com> wrote:
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousingat HaleWaipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61. Support housing forlocalfamiliesand not market housing
for offshore buyers.
1
Mahalo!
With Aloha Always
Tanja Miller,Realtor(S)
Maui’sHome Match Maker Connecting Heartsand Homes
Mobile: (808) 633-3214
httD://mauirealestateohana.com/
RS-78256
<5F14D3D6-64DF-4E8D-9D63-6BED4D77B5F9.jpeg>
Maui Ghana Real Estate, LLC
30 East Lipoa Street,Suite 4-106
Kihei, HI 96753
2
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Marion Moe <marioncmoe@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 6:24 AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom marioncmoe@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
NORMAN AND MARION MOE
QOO yj
C*n
m
o-< Vn moo ●n
<m H m
ooiTi
Ln
1
Count^£let^
From:
Sent:
Nancy Montoya <nmontoya@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:15 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom nmontoya(5)hawaii.rr.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Nancy Montoya
Sent from my iPhone
O “n
CTI
"jm
73
m
o
fT1-< Kn
OO
mTTI
oo
1
Count^Cler^
From:
Sent:
D Moreno <dollypmoreno(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 10:03 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from dollypmoreno@gmaii.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Dolly Moreno
atoo
C-n
50
73
P m- o
mKn<
Oo s <Tl
mm ^
O
m o
1
RECEIVEDCount^CIei^
mi JUL 14 AH 10From:
Sent:
arshakn@gmail.com
Thursday,July14,2022 8:33AM
County Clerk
Testimony regardingBill21,outdoor lighting
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom arshakn@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Esteemed Members of the County Council,
Iwould liketo testifyinstrongsupportof the Bill21 to restrictthe use of outdoor lighting.According to Dr Scott Fisher
of Hawaii Land Trust,Hawaii has the dubious honors of being the placeon earth where speciesare going extinctthe
fastest,so we must act now.
There are numerous researchstudiesthat linklightpollutionto the demise of birds and insects.This isan issue
recognizedbytheUnitedNations,"Lightpollutioncan cause birdsto change theirmigrationpatterns,
foragingbehavioursand vocalcommunication,resultingindisorientationand collisions"statesthe
UN "Dim the LightsforBirdsat Night"publication.
One of the objectionsto thisbillisthatlightsprovidea feelingof safety inresidentialcommunities.
This concern can be easilymitigatedby the installationof a nightvisionoutdoor home security
camera thattypicallyretailsfor$100. This isa smallpriceto pay incomparison to the permanent
damage vyeare doingto our ecosystem with lightpollution.
1relocatedto Hawaii three years ago as a tech entrepreneurand moved my company here because I
appreciatethe naturalbeauty of Hawaii and would liketo see itpreserved.My company donates data
science resources to the Hawaii Land Trust to help create artificialintelligencemodels that can
mitigatetsunami damage to sensitivewetland areas.This isan issue 1care deeply about and hope
thatthe councilwillapprove thisbillto improve the plightof our nativespecies.
Best,
Arshak Navruzyan
1108 Kupulau Dr
Kihei,HI 96753
Ph; 808-481-8777
1
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
cody nemet <kokoroots@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 9;55AM
County Clerk
Testimony forHaleWaipuilaniCR 22-61
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom kokoroots@gmaii.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Hale Waipuilani Testimony
Aloha mai kakou, my name isCody Nemet Tuivaiti,and Iam a lifelong residentof
Kula Kai, a member of the Aha Moku council and a steward of hui o 'Ainakuko'a o
Waiohuli Kai,a restorationprojectin the vicinityof thisproposed development.
There isa very famous 'olelono'eau that says,He Wa'a He Moku, He Moku He Wa'a,
A canoe is an island, and an island is a canoe.
What isthe differencebetween Quantity of lifeas to the Qualityoflife?
We can learna lotfrom historyand from the stewards ofthese lands because they
survived formore than 2000 years completely sustainable,but yet,in a matter of
one lifetime,1myself have seen our canoe, our Moku, fillup with water.Western
Influencehas brought a new mindset to the islands,expansion.
As a steward and advocate for restoration, itis vital that our impacts to our
environment are held to the highestregard.This involveswater quality,marine
health,culturalawareness and mitigationmeasures in the terms of sea levelrise,
runoffand storm-surge.
As we have seen recently,storm surge isvery real,and so isfloodingand runoff.I
worry because there ismore emphasis on new growth and lesson the existingwell
being of our community and 'aina.
1would liketo entertainthe idea ofthisland being turned to conservationin a land
swap as was mentioned to me as a possibility.
Being thatthisarea isalready surrounded with homes, conservationland isexactly
what thisarea needs, not justforthe environment, but forqualityoflifein the
existing community.
As much as we need good homes we need a good qualityof life.What isthe sense
thatwe cram everyone together ifeveryone ismiserable,more traffic,more
flooding,lossof environment, and lossof moralitywithin our localcommunities.
● (Morality:when localsfeellikestrangersin theirown town]
As a member of the Aha Moku council, we have made ita mission to represent core
values when itcomes to stewardship of such conservation areas,a place that is
impactfulto our running waterways, our endemic and native plants,the
continuation of a healthy hydrology cyclethat permeates through to our oceans.
Overall,a betterqualityoflife.
1ask thatwe revisitother options proposed, and remember that while we look to
the futureforour much needed affordablehousing,thatthere are alreadythousands
of homes here that also need to be acknowledged. It'sPono planning.And as
someone who grew up hisentirelifein Kula Kai,1can tellyou firsthand thatwe are
experiencing too many changes too quickly.We have been impacted, we are
strangersin our own home, we have lostmany ofthe core values we grew up with
due to the heavy influxof misguided planning.Planning ismore than justmeeting
requirements, it'ssettingstandards.
. (According to county documents, the Hale Waipu'ilaniprojectisseeking the
county's fast-trackaffordablehousing process to create28 for-saleunits on
1.53 acres.Under the county's 2.97 residentialworkforce housing policy,
developers may request exemptions or modificationsto county code in order
to build 100% affordableprojectsquickly.]
Count^Clerj<
From:
Sent:
Mike Neubauer <earthtrot@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:14AM
County Clerk
TestimonyforHaleWaipuilaniaffordablehousingproject
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom earthtrot@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
I'dliketo throw my testimonyinsupportof the HaleWaipu'ilaniaffordablehousing project.As you know the residents
of Maui county have been screaming foraffordablehousingfasterthan itcan be built.As a former firefighterin Kihei,I
know thislocation well,and think that itwould be a good fitfor a small affordabledevelopment such as that proposed.
Hearing the dissentingarguments, Idon't agree with many of them. The flood zone factorIsridiculousinmy
opinion. Halfof Kiheiisa flood zone, and no one isforcinganyone to buy these places. Iflocalsunderstand the riskof
flooding,floodinsuranceisavailable.People pay millionsof dollarsforplacesalong Halama Street,and Uluniu Road a
stone'sthrow away. They don't seem to have a problem. Ifthiswere a viablefactor,there shouldn'tbe any buildingat
allanywhere makai of Kenolio Road.
To the councilmember thatsaidsomething about 60% of the residencesinthisarea are second homes or vacation
homes: Really? Idon't thinkso, not even close.UNLESS you're counting the unitsin Maui Sunset,Kauhale Makai,
Waipuilani and allthose vacation rentalcomplexes on the makai sideof South KiheiRoad, but you can'tfactorthose
in. We know what those are.Those are the propertiesthat pay 17.25% taxeson top of theirpropertytaxesto help pay
the salariesof everyone inthe county. We need those, ifyou want to get paid.The actualresidencesalong Waipu'ilani,
Eleu,and surrounding areas are almost allowner occupied.Counting vacationrentalsintoyour argument islaughable
and deceptive.
In the end, everyone seems to be infavor of affordablehousing,justnot intheirbackyards. Well,something has to give.
This isa small footprintthat would benefitthe localson Maui who have seen the average home pricego to over$1.2m
today. As you know the vast majorityof our infrastructureisbasedon tourism.Thiswillnotcf)a.nge.Weeing from
home has become much more commonplace, bringingdemand frompeoplewhowanttolivel^^^panSop.Tl^isn'tgoing to change. You can'tstop progress. What you cando,ishelplocalswhocan'taffordtheO]2Vncur^tpiji^tagto be able to own theirown place insteadof having torelocatetothemainland. H fn
Thank you foryourtime and consideration.
o
mV/1-<
OO “n
mm
:ax <3?Mike Neubauer oo
1
MIKENEUBAUERX
Photographer investor
Phone: (808) 758-3500
EarthTrot@qmail.com
Neubauer.net ● MauiAwav.com
Instaqram ]Facebook |Linkedin |BiggerPockets
2
Count^CleiJ<
mo juL 13 «
GFFICf OF THE
eoUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Irene Newhouse <einew@hotmail.com>
Tuesday, July12,2022 4:38 PM
County Clerk
Bill21 CD1 FD1
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom einew@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam stronglyinfavorof Bill21 CDl FDl. regulatingartificiallightingto protectseabirds.The BigIslandhas
been a pioneerinregulatingartificialoutdoor lightingdue to the internationaltelescopesthere,and Maui
coulddo worse than adopt similarregulations.By theway, afterthisMayor's futile,wasteful & stupid
insistenceon takinginjectionwellsto SCOTUS, Iam now alsoinclinedto oppose hisother positions- his
judgment isawful.
Irene Newhouse
129 Walua PI.
Kihei HI 96753
1
County Clerk
KCCCIVCD
mi «SJL13 « 7>49
From:
Sent:
Irene Newhouse <einew@hotmail.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 7:45AM
County Clerk
CR22-61 Buildingon Kiheifloodplains
To:
Subject:
OFFtCe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom einew@hotmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
The Waipuilaniarea isan unholy mess already.In2018,1was partof a papa oli& we were assigned to check
out 4 waterways near where we lived.IselectedWaipuilaniGulch as one. Just look at thisaerialshot:
1
High water flows under the Pi'ilaniHwy & intothe undeveloped gulch area from where I'veplaced the
rightmost oval.Obviously provision'sbeen made fora LOT ofwater.Then what? Look atthe outletinthe left
oval.What on EARTH? How isthe flow from the rightsupposed to empty on the leftw/out massive
flooding? Justto drivethe point home, below Isa pictureof outlet/muliwai Itook InApril2018, afteran
extensive dry period:
1
\
V-‘.
9 11.
● i! U. .r I ●
There isnear zero capacityfor high water exithere.It'stotallyobvious to anyone with common sense.So you
put the houses on stilts?How are people livinginthem supposed to get in& out forwork, grocery shopping,
school,during high water episodes? Who's going to pay to remove the mud from the streets,letalone the
yards?
One of the worst ideas I've heard in a while!
Irene Newhouse
129 Walua PI
Kihei HI 96753
2
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
TinaNguyen <mauihomemanicures@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:34 PM
CountyClerk ^ ^We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipojiM'
cZi
Zq
-dm
To:
Subject:
mF
o
[Youdon'toftengetemailfrom mauihomemanicures(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
mWn
oo <
mm-»
Aloha Councilmember,
XTTl
aVI
CO
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^lerk
LisaNowacky <lnowacky@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5:00 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from [nowacky@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.I'm a singlemom and work as an ER nurse at Maui Memorial and Ican'tafforda
home forme and my kids.Iwent to school here to get my nursingdegree. My kidswere born and raisedhere.We'd love
to stay here but we can'tdo that ifwe can'taffordour own home. We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
LisaNowacky 3PO
0“n
C"n
●im
mSent from my iPhone
o
-< rnOn
oo <Tl
mm
:ox
7\ rn
O01
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
George Nunes <keokimaui11@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 3:24 PM
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
received
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom keokimauil1@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We supportaffordablehousing at Hale Waipuilanil
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
George Nunes
1
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Dennis O'Donnell <dennis@romvari.net>
Friday,July15,2022 10:43AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom dennis@romvari.net.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore
buyers.
Mahaio!
Dennis O'Donnell
Realtor (S)-79113
Work Cell: 808-419-7640
Personal Cell: 808-280-6596
oo 73
m
o2.0
"ifti m%j\<
ROMVARI
RE ALT
O <3o n
1“ m
Ow
vn
1
Count^£leH<
received
nn JUL15 m 7:26
OFFICE OF THECOUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent:
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros<mavisoliveira@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 6:25 PM
County Clerk
cc 22-167, Reso 22-119, CD1, FD1 & 22-144
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom mavisoliveira@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee & Councilmembers:
This isMavis Oliveira-Medeiros and Iwork at the Hana DistrictOffice,CM Shane Sinenci.Testifyingpersonally.
Ijustwant to go on recordespeciallyforour futuregenerations & Descendants insupport of the above mentioned
items, specificallythe amendment to the revisedcharterof the County of Maui to establisha Maui County Water
AuthoritiesAND to establishan EastMaui RegionalCommunity Board. We losttwo generations of teaching our kids
& theirshow to gather,cook and eat itdue to the water diversionswhich happened when Iwas a young girl.Our
parents took us to Nahiku & beyond to gather food opae, hihiwai,even o'opu, as my Dad was from Nahiku.
1alsosupport havingseparatedistrictPlanningCommissions because so many thingshappen in Hana with no
warning. Something iswrong with the system now.
Mahalo nui loa.
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros
Council Aide
Hana District Office
(808)866-7409
1
RECEIVEDCount^CietJ<
2IR2JUL 14 PH 4=29From:
Sent:
Paul Olson <pjo351@yahoo,com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:27PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing
To:
JFIQE 0,FTHESubject:
(You don'toftengetemailfrom pjo351@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies,but thisprojectisnot affordable.Justlikethe projectinKihei,they are charging a
very highHOA fee,$600 per month, and the terms arefor 20 years.
Mahalo!
Paul Olson
105 Manino Circle,Apt. 101
Kihei,HI 96753
1-808-868-8061
1
Count^CIeH<
From:
Sent:
Melody-LeiOsinem <IOv31ei638@gmaii.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:52 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom I0v3lei638@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing for offshore buyers.
Mahalo!
PO
0"n 73
F mZo O
< mVI
Oo 3»>
a:
mm-i
DVI
CO
1
RECEIVED
Coimt^£lerk
mi JUL Iil AH 8: 08From:
Sent:
ken Ota <kenota11@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:52 AM
County Clerk
Testimony itemCC22-62 Affordablehousing Bill107,CD1 2022 COUNTY CLERK
OFFICE OF THETo:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kenota11@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Chair Lee and Members
1am a partnerin a 80 unit100% affordablehousing project(saleunits)inWailuku. Ido not support Bill107,
CD1 (2022) in itscurrentform. With interestratesrising,materialcosts increasing,and permittingdelays,itis
already extremely challengingto buildaffordablehomes under the currentsalesprices.Reducing the sales
prices,as proposed inthe billwould make our projectunfeasibleto build,thus stopping any housing inits
entirety.There isan existinglack of inventory,and cuttingthe salespricewould likelyfurtherreduce inventory
and potentiallykillexistingprojects.
Please consider subsidizingthe individualbuyers and leavingthe affordablehousing sales pricesintheir
currentform. The County could best assistthe builders’effortsto buildaffordablehousing by providingthe
necessary public infrastructurefor housing.
thank you
Ken Ota
808-870-7913
90 Pulehu Place Suite 100
Kahului HI 96732
1
RECEIVED
W/ JUL13 W 8-05Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
LeianePaci<LPaci@mills-group.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:42AM
County Clerk
Testimony -Bill21 LightingOrdinance
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKTo:
Subject:
[You don'toftengetemailfrom lpaci(S)mills-group.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Council Members,
Iam testifyingagainstproposed Bill21, because itconflictswith the goal of sustainabilityand adverselyaffectsthe
people inthiscommunity. Imagine how many perfectlygood, working lightfixtureswillneed to be removed and
dumped because of thisproposed bill.Most sustainableconcepts would allow existinglightingto remain in place for the
lifeof the fixture.
For example, the drivingrange at the Dunes has new fixtures.Ifthisbillispassed, the affectsto the environment would
be detrimental.To comply with thisproposed bill,itwould require rippingout entirelightpoles,concrete bases, and
newly installedfixtures.Then a contractorwillhave to dig 6-8 feet deep along the length of both sidesof the range to
installnew concrete lightbases,poles,conduits,and fixtures.
This billwillrequireunnecessary ground disturbanceand wasteful dumping of useable fixtures.Isthe County landfill
ready to accept excess constructionwaste created by thisproposed bill?Please consider the unintended consequences
of thisbillwhich willhurt our island'ssustainabilityand vote "No."
Sincerely,
Leiane Paci
General Manager
The Dunes at Maui Lani
1
RECEIVED
mi JUL 13 PM % 15Testimony of
PacificResource Partnership
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Council of the County of Maui
RegularMeeting
Friday,July15, 2022
Re: 1)Amend Resolution22-119,CDl, FDl to establisha Maui Nui Community Water Systems and an
East Maui RegionalCommunity Board;and 2) Resolution22-144, CDl, FDl establishplanning
commissions forallcommunity planareason Maui,and dissolvethe Maui PlanningCommission.
Aloha Chair Lee,Vice Chair Rawtins-Fernandez,and Members of the Council:
PacificResource Partnershipstronglyopposes 1) Resolution22-119,CDl, FDl and 2) Resolution22-144,
CDl, FDl.
We stronglyoppose Resolution22-119, CDl, FDl (proposes a Charter Amendment authorizingthe
County to establisha Maul Nui Community Water Systems and EastMaui RegionalCommunity Board)for
the followingreasons:
● The Maui Islandwater use and development plan adopted by the Councilspecificallystatesunder
exhibitA of Ordinance 5335, on page 270: thata studyshould be conducted to study "water
system ownership and management models, such as water authority..."There isno evidence
that a formal study by a reputable research company has been completed to investigateand
analyzethe implementation and impacts of a countywide water authorityforMaui County.
● Concerned thatthe ratepayerwillbe requiredto pay fora countywide water authorityat a time
when Maui residentsare strugglingwith Maui'shighcostof livingand lackof affordablehousing.
The followingincludessome of the coststhatthe ratepayeror Maui residentmay have to pay
for:
o Hiringof staff,salaries,and fringebenefits:
o Officespace and equipment,
o Maintenance and operationof water systems,
o Upgrades and the rebuildof water systems,
o Potentialacquisitionor condemnation of landsto retaincontrolof water systems
● Itispremature to pass thischarteramendment when the rolesand responsibilitiesbetween the
proposed water authorityand Maui's Department of Water Supply are unclear.
fitCttK PfSOucrCfe
THF POWER OF PARTNFRRHiP WWW.PRP-HAWAII.C9li)
WVW FACEBOOK.COM/
PACIFICRES0URCEPARTNFR5HIP
llOOALAKEASTREET/iTHFLOOR' IBJHONOI..UIU/HI96813 ^
TWITTER:
laPRPHAWAII oPHONE --> 808.528.5557
a
Cl jui^«
(Continued From Page 1)
As sucb;we respectfullyrecommend thatthe Councildefer thismeasure.
YTHUCC-
We stronglyoppose Resolution22-144,CDl, FDl (proposesa CharterAmendment establishingplanning
commissions forallcommunity plan areason Maui, and dissolvesthe Maui PlanningCommission) forthe
followingreasons:
The Maui CharterCommission had previouslyincludeda similarproposal intheirJanuary 18, 2022 Draft
Report to the Council,which would have eliminatedthe Maui PlanningCommission and replaced itwith
sixnew PlanningCommissions foreach of the Community Plan areas on the islandof Maui; no changes
were proposed for Lanaiand Molokai PlanningCommissions.
In a January 20, 2022 memo to the Charter Commission, the Corporation Counsel identifiedlegaland
practicalissuesto be addressed forthe proposed new Planning Commissions (See page 5 of memo
dated January 20, 2022 attachment)
The Department of Planningsubmitted writtentestimony inoppositionand recommended an
alternativeproposalthatthe Maui PlanningCommission be comprised of at leastone member of
each of the Community Plan areas.(See Department of PlanningTestimony dated January 24, 2022).
The Charter Commission's FinalReport dated February 18, 2022 included a versionof the
Department of Planning-recommended alternative,which would requirethe Maui Planning
Commission to have representationfrom each Maui Community Plan district.(See attached).
o
o
o
As such, we respectfullyrecommend that the Councildefer thismeasure.
THC ~ DM CR Dr PAfiTKCRS'ilc
RECEIVEDTestimony of
PacificResource Partnership
mi JUL I PH 22
CityCouncil
Councilof the County of Maui
Councilmember AliceLee, Chair
Councilmember Keani N.W. Rawlins-Fernandez,Vice Chair
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
BillNo. 107,CDl (2022)—to establisha new method of determiningthe salespriceof an affordabledwelling
unitto includethe totalhousing costsassociatedwith home ownership such as principal,interest,taxes,
homeowner's insurance,privatemortgage insurance,and homeowner's associationdues.
Friday,July15, 2022
9:00 A.M.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the Council.
PacificResource Partnership(PRP) isa non-profitmarket recoverytrustfund which representsapproximately
7,000 men and women union carpentersand 240 largeand smallcontractors.With our expertiseinresearch,
compliance, marketing,and projectadvocacy,we are committed to buildinga stronger,more sustainable
Hawaii ina way that promotes a vibranteconomy, createsjobs,and enhances the qualityof lifeforall
residents of Hawaii.
PRP writesinstrongoppositionto Bill107, CDl, establishinga new method ofdeterminingthe salespriceof
an affordablehousing dwellingunit.
We have witnessed and continueto see how Maui's overregulationof affordablehousingprojectshave kept
thiscounty initscurrenthousing crisis.Many industryexpertshave raisedmajorconcernsaboutthis
Council'stendency to rush legislationthrough the legislativeprocesswithoutlookingatthe financialand
practicalrealitiesof what ittakesto buildaffordablehousing.Ifpassed.Bill107 willbe another regulatory
barrierto the constructionof affordablehousing.
We respectfullyrecommend thatthe Councildeferthismeasure and continuethe dialoguewith
stakeholders,includingaffordablehousing developers,to establishpoliciesthatwillincentivizethe
constructionof more affordablehousing before the problem getsworse.
Thank you forthe opportunityto submit writtentestimony.
I'ACfriC RF5CWJRCF
IWZ POWER OF PARTNERSHIP WWW.PRP-HAWAII.COM
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/
PACIFICRESOURCEPARTNERSHIP
1100ALAKEASTREET/4THFLOOR lA TWITTER:
HONOLULU/HI96813 ^ I3PRPHAWAIIoPHONE ^ 808.528.5557
Count^Clerk RPnpi\/pn
From:
Sent:
ElenaPanigada RB-21671 <mauielena@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:17 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuila65FFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
miM H PH 4:25
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mauielena@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Elena Panigada RB_21671
Broker-Agent
IslandSotheby's InternationalRealty
CELL 808-269-0282
1
Count^Clet^
From:
Sent:
Gary Passon <gpasson@vectoraero.com>
Friday,July15,2022 7:24AM
County Clerk
Councilmembers — pleasevote no on HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom gpasson@vectoraero.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Mahalo Gary Passon
Long time Kihei homeowner.
OO 73
m
ozo
“irn mVn-<
oo 2s
m
Oo
7^r\
1
RECEIVED
2622JUL PH <1:13
July15, 2022
OFFICE OF THE
COUIvrrY CLERKMaui County Council
Alice Lee, Chair
Committee Members
RE: Comments on Bill21 (2022) Seabird and Biodiversity Protection
Aloha Chair Lee and committee members,
The Maui Hotel & Lodging Association(MHLA) isthe legislativearm ofthe visitorindustryfor
Maui County.We representover 170 propertyand alliedbusinessmembers and over 12,000
employees.
MHLA would liketo offercomments on the proposed Bill21, relatingto outdoor lightingforthe
protection of seabirds.
This Billwould impact alloutdoor lighting— from outdoor restaurants,patios,seating,golf
drivingranges,outdoor shopping centers likeMaui Mall and Queen Ka'ahumanu Center,
privateswimming pools,privatelandscaping,county fairs,outdoor concerts,and allresidential
exteriorlighting.By includingailoutdoor lighting,thisBillisaffectinga broad rangeof anything
outdoor and defined to be outdoor.
Hawaii County, which has a similarstatute,has establisheda listof preapproved fixtures;we
recommend that ifthisbillisapproved that Maui County adopt a similarlistto helpsimplify
compliance with the County ordinance.
Additionally,MHLA isrespectfullyrequestinga five-yeargrace period,ratherthan threeyears
to be in compliance.
Thank you forthe opportunity to provide testimony.
Lisa Paulson
Executive Director,Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
85 N. Church Street,Wailuku HI 96793 | P.808-244-8625 F.808-244-3094|infof5)mauihla.ore|www.mauihla.ore
Count^^Cletj<
From:
Sent:
F Pitzer<frances.pitzer@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 11:49AM
County Clerk
Pisno NOT pass Bill21
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom frances.pitzer@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
Thisbillistoofar-reachingso pleasedo notpassit.Itsintentisgood
Dut itneeds to be softened to balance the welfare of people,including
cupuna and nighttimeevents,with the needs of the birds. Let'shave
anothergo atit,with a lessdrasticimpactto humans.
Mahalo,
Frances Pitzer
Vtaui
St
oo
o
C22
50
w
73
fe m
- omVI
O
a <o ●n
m-I
:bx aw
un
1
receivedCounty Clerk
Z0?zJULl^iPH3:13From:
Sent:
pluta@maui.net
Thursday, July 14,2022 2:56 PM
County Clerk
Alice L Lee
Committee Report No. 22-62;Bill107,CD1 (2022)
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKCc:
Subject:
J-*
WEST MAIS T
Advocating For Y(gSi! T-
!':i?
'
C.y---	 	
homepage:
^^Iiin^Mq^^^ifO:Bbx"10338,Lahalna,HI96761.ph(
Via e-mail to county.clerk^mauicounty.us
Chair Alice Lee
County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Committee Report No. 22-62;Bill107,CDl (2022)Re:
Aloha Chair Lee:
The WMTA board of directorsdoes not support Bill107, CDl (2022),initscurrentform.
The lackof housing for saleon Maui isalready drivingpricesup.Our localworkforceisnotabletofinda
basic single-familyhome or rentalsdue to lackof inventory.
Artificiallylowering the pricethat builders can sellthe affordablehousingwillfurtherreducethe supplyof
homes and increasethe pricesof existinghomes. This willmake thingsworse insteadofbetter.
Instead of mandating lowering the affordablehousing salespricespleaseconsiderinfrastructure
improvements and zoning changes that would encourage home builders.
The pre-constructioninfrastructurecosts and requirements currentlyexistingneed to be examined.New
homes contributeto property tax revenues and County investment into
Subsidizinginfrastructurecostswould allow lower pricedhomes inallcategories,especiallyinthe
affordable price ranges.
1
RespectfullySubmitted on behalfofthe WMTA board.Qr'. I
m jui
>
iliT ■'.0HM 11
Joseph D Pluta,President
This email has been checked for virusesby AVG antivirussoftware.
www.avg.com
X
2
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Megan Powers <alohapowers@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 8:52 AM
County Clerk
Insupport of a Water Authority
To:
Subject:
You don’toftengetemailfrom alohapowers@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Mayor and Council,
Aloha,thisisMegan Loomis Powers from the Huelo / Haiku area.Igrew up on our familyland that borders Ho'olawa
stream.
My two childrenand my granddaughter were born there. Ihave witnessed the stream lifeebb and flow as EMI
would take most of the water most of the time, and then stormwater would clean out the stagnant pools,
mosquitoes and allow for a small window of time when lifewould return along the stream {an exquisitelybeautiful
occurrence)-only to be driedout again and againand again over the last50 years. Thisallowed forinvasivespecies
to get a strong-holdas they survived betteralong the dry stream-bed.
Iam testifyingto offermy resounding SUPPORT forthe charteramendment to createa Water Authorityforthe
County of Maui. No more research isrequired to givethe citizensof Maui an opportunityto vote on the creationof
the Water Authority.Once itisinplace,likeany livinginstitutionthere willbe opportunityto improve upon its
structureand function,in necessary.
But we have no time to waste. Itneeds to be established sooner than later.
For too long the precious waters that sustainlifefor Maui County have been controlledby corporationswhose
bottom lineisprofit.Our watersheds, nativefloraand fauna and nativeculturalpracticeshave nearlybeen snuffed
out due to the selfish,extractivepractices.
We are currentlyat the precipiceof long-term leasesgoing intothe hands of foreigncorporationswho would then
controlour water supply. (Whose managing partners by the way, have a checkered historyofwater controland
abuse inCalifornia.)
We cannot let our water resources be in those hands.
But even ifwe were not presentlyunder eminent threatby such leasesto such entities,itwould simplybe good
management to have such an Authority in place.
Thisisnot a new concept. Many placesinthe United Statesand around the worldalreadyhave Water Authoritiesin
place helpingto protectthe watershed and manage the many competing demands on the resource.
Itislong over due that Maui County controlit'sown PublicTrustwater resourcesforpresentand future
generations.
Sincerely,
Megan Loomis Powers
1
Count^CletJ<
From:
Sent:
Zen Powers <zenkekoa@gmail.com>
Monday, July18,2022 11:01AM
County Clerk
In support of the CharterAmendment to createa Water Authority
To:
Subject:
[Youdon’toftengetemailfrom zenkekoa@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha County CouncilMembers,
1believethatthe citizensof Maui County need to be given the opportunity to vote on the creationof a Water
Authority!
We need our water resources to be managed properlyfor present and future generations!
Me Ka Ha'aha'a,
Z. Kekoa Powers
1
Count^^let^
From:
Sent:
Jason Purcell<dwellhi@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:32AM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftengetemailfrom dwellhi@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani.
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
Jason Purcell and Erika Thomason
GO
73O -n
C“n
50
Sent from my iPhone m
o
mKn<
Oo <3*n
mm H
:ox O\jj
«o
1
Aloha Kakahiaka County Council,
My name isLindsey Rex, Hawaii residentsince'82
Iam infavorof HMI waterauthoritybeingmanaged atthe county level.Iam againstthe
privatizationofwaterby a foreigncorporationorany corporationforthatmatter.This isMaui and
Maui'spreciousresourcesneed tobe stuardedand manged here,county level.
In February of 2019 Mauians met with a Senator Panel regardingrightsto water between Maui
Farmers & PSP investments of Canada aka Mahi Pono.
A quote from the Maui New coverage of thatmeeting
“Urging theprotectionof East Maui’s water forNative Hawaiian use,Joyclynn Costa of Haiku saidthe
fightover EastMaui water isnothingnew and thatshe’ssaddened areafamiliesmust continuallybattle
forrights.'Thishas been going on sinceIwas born,'saidCosta,whose 83-year-oldfatherfrom Nahiku
alsotestified.“And yet we stillcome hereto thesame tablewiththesame songs.It’swhat theywould
equate to insanity.’’
This isisnot a new fight.
Historicallywe seeHawaii fightingforitslanguage,land,culture,and water.Itdoesnotneed to
be a fight.Representthe peoplewell,electedcouncilmembers.
Checks and balances arc needed or Maui... Hawaii as we know itwill not be what ithas been
so famouslyknown for.ItisnotedthatMahi Pono has invested600 millionitsfarmingoperationhere.
Ithas d ili'^’^r'^iO'^dnmpg hm:ti-o«J^niii-.inipmvpftEMI infrastructure,and currentlyisnot
using nearlytheamount of water A&B used with sugar cane.We can recognizeand honorthisbutby
no means is this a reason for Maui to be accountable to them forwater.Itneeds to be the otherway
around.This isMaui's terf,not a foreigncorporation's.A cohesivesymbioticrelationshipcan be
maintainedwhile stillallowingthewater authoritytoremaininthecontrolofan electedMaui water
authority
Other noteworthyinformationisthePurchase& SaleAgreement& Escrow instructions
between A&B and Mahi Pono. In reference to the Rebate section2.7 Ifthe seller(A&B) isunable to
legallydeliverirrigationwater sufficientforbuyer (Mahi Pono)tofullyimplementit'sfarmingplan,
then rebates in the amount of $62 million are owed from the sellerto the buyer.
We arediscussingthelegalityof waterrightsrightnow. Ihope thepurchaseand escrow
agreementjustreferencedisa coincidenceotherwise itlookslikeA&B isgoingtohavetopayback
Mahi Pono $62 million.
Mahai Pono isnot the only farm in town. There are Nativeand Localtannerswho have been on
islandlong beforeMahi Pono. Maui Fanners arepartofcultivatingsustainabilityandaresynergistics
towhat making our islandwhat itis.Money can notbuy thatkindofatmosphere.Do notallowmoney
to influenceyour decisioncouncil.
Mahalo foryour Time & Energy
Count^Clerk
GrantRice<ghce@bishopgorman.org> receivedFriday,July15,20223:14PM ^ C U
JUL 15 puWe supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
opf/ge Of twp
eoUNTycleSkI You don'toftengetemailfrom grice@bishopgorman.org.Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Council Member:
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing. Please vote infavor of Resolution 22-
61. Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Grant Rice
Athletic Director
Head Men's Basketball Coach
Bishop Gorman High School
1
Count^GeHt -■R'&CSiV
mi JUL 14 AH 9:10
From:
Sent:
Anthony Riecke-Gonzales<anthony@rskarchitects.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:08AM
County Clerk
Committee Report No. 22-62
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom anthony@rskarchitects.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Alice Lee
Chair,Councilofthe County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Re: Committee Report No. 22-62
FirstReading of Bill107, CDl (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee,
1am an architectand do not support Bill107, CDl (2022)as proposed.Ihave participatedinseveralaffordable
housing projectsas an architectand see the struggleto make the projectsaffordable.Itisa struggleto buildaffordable
housing on Maui under the current priceguidelines,with the currentupfrontcost.Today buildersarefacingthe highest
increased costsfor materials,financingand permittingtime,as wellas infrastructurerequirementsthatdriveup the cost
of the homes. Lowering the salespricesdoesn't lower the buildingcost,or provideany path to buildersto balancethe
cost of a projectwith it'ssalesprice.By lowering the salesprices,very few or no homes willbe builtwith current
requirements and construction costs. Please leave the salespricesintheircurrentform or considertradingany sales
pricereductionwith the county or home buyers fundingthe infrastructurewitha specialbond/salestaxjustforthat
project.The County could best assisteffortsto buildaffordablehousingby providingthe necessarypublicinfrastructure
for housing or by providingsubsidiesto the Buyers.
Both my daughter moved to Oregon inpartdue to the costof livingon Maui.That opened my understandingof
how other placesfund housing development. They were ableto by used homes as young adults.The salespriceisvery
low compared to Maui, but the salestax isvery high. The end costisnot thatfarapart,but what isdifferentisthatthe
loan amount they need to qualifyfor iswithin reach,and the taxesthey pay fund what many inMaui have to includein
theirhome priceupfront. Their tax billsvary from neighborhood to neighborhood,and detailina breakdown ofthe
bonds that paid forthe water, sewer, road,school,or other publicpartsassociatedwith theirproject.The advantageof
that isalsothat the publicpartswere funded by a bond witha good interestratenotavailableto individuals,and fully
designed and integratedintothe overalltown's system.
Passinga billthatmandates a lower salespricewithout a way to make up the differencefrom actualcostwill
just resultinanother stop to housing being built.Likewhen Tavarespasseda mandated a 40% affordablecomponent to
projects.Afterthat very littlegot built.
Aloha, Anthony Riecke-Gonzales
Riecke Sunniand Kono Architects, Ltd.
Mailing Address: P.O.Box 1627, Kahului HI 96733-1627
Street Address; 2145 Wells St..Suite 302, Wailuku HI 96793
Cell;(808) 281 -1934 Desk; (808) 872-3602 Main: (808) 877-7688
1
CountyCleiJ<
From:
Sent:
jodi riley<joder8@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 6:55 PM
County Clerk
Opposing Hale Waipuilanihousing development!
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfromjoder8@yahoo.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
To whom itmay concern,
1am gravelyconcerned regardingthisdevelopment inKihei. People inour community have been againstthisfrom the
beginning.
Please, listenand consider these issues:
-Trafficisalready difficultto exitKauha'a onto South kiheiRd., especiallyin morning trafficgoing to work.
-Already existingisa densely populatedarea withno sidewalkshere and there,with multiplecars/trucks/trailerson the
road.(WaipuilaniSt.inparticular.)
- The wetlands green beltbirdsanctuary needs itsspace to not be encroached upon; the Kiawe woods thereisa natural
space surrounding and protectingthe fragilewetlands. To have itallcutdown and humans/buildingstakingitsplaceis
NOT an effectiveway to preserve our aina.
Ihave a millionmore reasons, and ifyou care to hear me elaborate,don'thesitateto contactme.
Ihave been a home owner on Laumaewa Loop for14 years.Iam a publicschool teacherans am dedicatedto our island.
Aloha,
Jodi Riley
808-264-9092
oo
73
c: “H m
"im O
mv-n-<
oo <-n
mm <??
QTJ -J- O
o
1
RECEIVED
im JUL 14 PM H- 25
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
juss rodi<jussrodi@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:19 PM
County Clerk
Hale WaipuilaniHousing Development Testimony
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfromjussrodi@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council,
Iown a home thatispaid for(and expect to liveinforthe restof my life)inthe Medowlands HOA, directlyacross from the
proposed Hale Waipuilanihousing development. Idon'tbelievethatthisisa good idea forour community. Any new road
enteringKauha'a thatclose to South KiheiRoad willcompound the danger Iface when tryingto make my way from
Laumaewa Loop to Kauha'a then on to South KiheiRoad. There have been accidentsatthislocation.One driverhitthe
residenton the corner'smailbox and nearby electricpole.Another drivertook out a palm treeinthe frontyard of a
homeowner directlyacross from the proposed ingress/regressroad at the cornerof Laumaewa Loop and Kauha'a.The
danger iseven worse when Iam walking or ridingmy bike as there isno sidewalkor bikelane.Plentyof people walk their
dogs along thisroute and itisonly a matter of time before some tragicaccidentoccurs.Inadditiontothis,the area floods
whenever we have realrainin Kihei.1can'ttellyou how many timesthisintersectionhas been closeddown due to rain,
but I'vecome to expect itaftera good rain.This isusuallyaccompanied by a trafficjam on Kauha'a as people tryto make
theirway around Kihei'sflooded streets.
1am infavorof low cost housing, but thisprojectcould benefitbuyersfrom the mainland and would onlyincreasethe
populationof our islandinan area thatisalreadydensely populatedand difficulttogetaround safelyand ina timely
manner. Finally,given thatthe projectneeds exemptions to SMA requirementsand zoning laws,itclearlyneeds to be
relocated where these exemptions do not need to be granted.
Please keep thisarea of Maui, where my home is,safe and freefrom overcrowding by votingto notapprove the Hale
Waipuilanihousing development. It'ssimply a bad idea at thislocation.
Thank you,
Russell Riley
42 Laumaewa Loop, Kihei
1
County Clerk
F?FrrSiVrD
N PH i|:29
From:
Sent:
yaquelinerodriguez<rodriguez_yaquelIne@yahostaMrr^j|
Thursday,July14,2022 4:27 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousinga6B#l'^^gpQlpniTup
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom rodriguez_yaqueline@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
A localresidentwhose been strugglingto findhousing,Yaqueiin Rodriguez
808 298 9531
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Quezia Rogers <queziarogers@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:44 PM
County Clerk rw
To:
OO
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale WaipdJlIsrsi
C-n
hS
Subject: 73
m
o
m<[You don'toftenget emailfrom queziarogers@gmaii.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https;//aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification] GO 3 <-n
mm w
OAloha Councilmember, v/i
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVED
mi JULI4 PM 3=36
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Fred Romvari <fredromvari@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:23 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat OF THECOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom fredromvari@gmaii.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Fred Romvari P(B)
Work Cell 808 419-3061
Personal 808 280-8879
ROMVARI
REALTY
1
Count^Cledc
From:
Sent:
Regina Sagun <ginaleix03@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:07AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom ginaleix03@gmail.com.Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Please feel free to contact me for a more detailed testimony.
Regina
#808-856-9596
Mrschasecorniel@email.com
Mahalo!
St
oo
O-n 73
m
ozn
-im mvn-<
O
5 <o-n
mm-i
Oo
'O
1
Count^CleiJ<
From:
Sent:
Gary Savage <kanalusavage@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8;39AM
County Clerk;Gary Savage
Fwd: Updated testimony:Hale Waipuilanisiteshould remain as is,
designated as "conservation".
To:
O 73Subject:
m
50 O
m●<
o
I <3*
rn ro
You don'toftenget emailfrom kanalusavage@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
1am adding my testimony and am very gratefulforyour assistance.
David Dorn says itperfectlyand Iam infullagreement.
m
aw
U4
Forwarded message
From: David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com>
Date: Thu, Jul 14, 2022, 7:14 AM
Subject:Updated testimony:Hale Waipuilanisiteshould remain as is,and be designated as "conservation".
To: <countv.clerk(S)mauicountv.us>
Update 7/14/2022:
The Hale Waipuilaniprojectshould not be approved; We should not allow new housing to be builtinthe
floodzone. This area has multipleriskfactorsand there are many betterlocationsto buildaffordable
homes.
There are 2500 Affordablehomes inthe pipeline:Maui currentlyhas 36 AffordableHousing projectsinthe
works and according to Mayor Victorino(editorialreAffordableHousing Maui News 4/30/22),there are
2,500 affordablehomes inthe pipeline.
Disapproving willhave a negligibleimpact on AffordableHousing: Disapproving this28-unitprojectwill
have a negligibleimpact on Maui’s affordablehousing and represents only about 1 percent of affordable
housing inthe pipeline.
A land swap deal isthe best option: Maui County currentlydoesn't have the 133 milliondollarbudget to fix
drainage Infrastructureto make Kiheisafe from flooding.But the County does have land.The County has
land available at the Kihei Police Station,at Maui Lani,and inthe centralvalleynear Pu’unene. Any of
these areas are farbettersuitedforhousing, and are freefrom the flooding,and coastalhazards of
tsunami, sea levelrise,and climate change.
The Developer has been offered a Land Swap: The Maui County has offeredthe developer the opportunity
to discuss a land swap forcounty-owned land,ina more suitablelocation.Although the developer initially
agreed, they are now saying itwould take too long forthatto happen.
The County needs to protectKihei: Kiheicannot accommodate more traffic,or more housing inflood
zones, so we need to reduce development on the floodplain,and encourage a retreatfrom the shoreline.
Urban growth areas and new housing should be located on higherground, and farfrom known floodzones.
Only the County has the power to make the decisionsnecessary to make thishappen.
The best use of 16 E WaipuilaniRoad isConservation:
● This siteshould be placed intoconservation.This isone ofthe area’slastremainingopen spaces.
And itispartofthe localwatershed and wetland nexus.
1
● Keeping thislotas conservationhelps the County to meet itsgoals of Open Space preservation,
from the MIP, and KMCP Community Plan, as well as achieve the goals of shorelineretreatas
recommended inthe CARE Committee and Multiplestudies.
● Also, thisaction helps us to depopulate and relocatethe Kiheifloodzone, as was recommended by
former planning directorDavid Goode,
●fe Conserving thislotat 16 E Waipuilani Road willhelp to stabilizethe degraded watershed, and will
help preserve the site’sbeneficialfunctionas the area's de factodrainage basin.
● This also helps the County towards itsgoal of designating and acquiringland for“green drainage
infrastructure”,as recommended in the SMWP, and the KDMP.
-
Keep the property as is: Preserving thislotas is.has many benefitsand willnot overburden the local
community or itsaging infrastructure.The site’soriginalhistorichouse can remain, and continueto provide
housing. The open space and undeveloped land,can continue to provide beneficialservices.The site's
uncompacted Jaucus and Loamy sand soilscan continue to functionas a settlingarea forneighborhood
floodwaters,and the site'snativevegetation can be encouraged to provide ground cover and habitatfor
native species. Other possible uses could include becoming an urban nature park or a community garden.
a:
o
m
regards
David Dorn
2
4
received
JUL15 /yj8:00
OFFICE GF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Schntzcollaborotive.':
collaborative
July14, 2022
Affordable Housing Committee ChairGabe Johnson
Maui County Council
200 South HighStreet,8^^Floor
Wailuku, HI 96793
SUBJECT: Bill107, CDl (2022) - Suggested Amendment
Dear Chair Johnson and Committee Members,
Iam submittingwrittentestimony to express my concerns over Bill107, CDl (2022)
Please amend Bill107 to create the mortgage subsidy component contemplated in the Maui
County Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan.
Artificiallylowering salespricesto make housing more accessibleto Maui residentsdoes not
produce more homes. Council should establishmore tools to bridgethe gap between costto
buildand accessiblepricing.One toolwould be a mortgage subsidy to the buyers so that they
can buy the homes.
Builderscannot buildhomes ifthe salespricesare lowered to the Bill107 levels.There are
many variablesto the cost of buildinga home, one-sizedoes not fitallwhen itcomes to
construction costs. Construction costs, labor costs, interestrates,supply chain delays are not
controlledby the County or Builders.Today, we received news that cement alone will
increase 65-85% beginning next year. That means the price for concrete slabs for homes will
increase. My Wailuku Apartment project alone has increased pricing by 30% since 2019.
Costs have not historically gone down in Hawaii, only up.
IfBill107 passes,itwillineffectstop projectsfrom feasibilityand no homes willbe built
because there isno subsidy program attached to it.Rents willthen continue to rise.The Maui
County Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan,PolicyPriority8, Recommended Action 3,
makes clearthat adjustingthe Sales PriceGuidelines was intended to be done concurrently
with a mortgage subsidy.
We feelthat the mortgage subsidy should be given directlyto the homebuyer. IfCouncil
wants to incentivizebuilders,they should assistbuilderswith separate subsidiesfor public
infrastructureand comprehensive zoning changes to encourage building.
1
Mobile: SOJi.']/
■ ' Schatzcollaborative.com
cotlaborative
00« w 21 Jll'W
4nT aO 301V.--
HH3J0 YT/U'J.'
Thank you again forthe opportunityto submit thisproposal.Ifthere are any questions,or if
additionalinformation isneeded, please do not hesitateto contact me at (808)428-8717.
Warmest Regards,
Linda Schatz
Principal
2
Count^^Ierk RFni-!Vf=n
From:
Sent:
kohler@maui.net
Thursday,July14,2022 8:03AM
County Clerk
Bill21
im JUL 14 AM »09
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom kohler@maui.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
am writinginfavor of bill21. Each year our lightpollutionbecomes more and more invasive.Ican
see itspreading from my home in Haiku. Where once there were stars inthe sky there isnow light
pollution.We need to pass thislaw to givethe otherspecies we share thisislandwith a chance at
survival. I am sure we as humans can survive without more lighting.The birdshowever willnot be so
lucky.
Mahalo, Lisa Schlichting
1
Aloha Council Members, VOTE NO for Hale Waipuilani development lIlAjll
1am speaking ONLY for myself,as an advocate forthe wetlands, and a Kiheigirl.
My question forthe developers iswith thismarket and with interestratesso high,
can you identifyfor low AMI people to what lending product isavailablehere on
Maui for them to apply? Tve been lookingand 1haven't found one. Even though
thisispresented to be an affordablehousing project,what assurances can you
give to those low AMI folksthat there are lending products out there forthem? If
there are low-income people who have signed up foryour projectbut who cannot
qualifyfora loan/mortgage,then itseems as ifyou get an advantage by gettingto
sellat market ratequicklyinthissellers'climate.
Ifa product for lendingcannot be demonstrated, then thiswillturn out not to be
an affordable,and the projectshould not qualifyforexemptions.
Also,could the developersaddress the possibilityof having had an offerfrom the
Maui County of a land swap and thatthe developers turned itdown?
This low-lyingarea willbe a problem foranyone livingthere because of the
amount of flooding.Since the community has alreadyexperienced extreme
floodingatthisexactspot and the surroundingarea multiple times, an aggregate
amount of water dispersionthat includesmeasuring the impacts in and around
the areas of thisproperty,should,be taken as a whole, not justdispersion for the
proposed project'shardscape/rooftop area.
Iam NOT infavor of thisprojectwhere itisbeing proposed.
Iam infavor of thisprojectelsewhere ifthe County could do a land swap or
another similar solution that is not in the S. Maui
wetlandsorfloodpg'^.
Mahalo,
Charlene Schulenburg
73
^ mcm
Zo O
m
OO "n
mm 9?;cx Oo
Count^CleH<
Christa Seals <admin@sealsswimwear.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 11:10 AM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipuilani.
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don’t often get email from admin@sealsswimwear.com. Learn why thisisimportant
<https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha Council member,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing.Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support
housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo,
Christa Seals
Founder, CEO
Seals Swimwear
&OO
O n 73C*n cz mzo o"jm-< moo -n <
m-H
;dx
m
o
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
mi JUL M AH 8:09sese.cdb@gmail.com
Thursday,July14,2022 7:56AM
County Clerk
Item CC22-62 AffordableHousing Bill107,CD1 2022
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toften get email from sese.cdb@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Alice Lee, Chair
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku. Hawaii 96793
Committee Report No. 22-62;Bill107,CDl (2022)Re:
Aloha Chair Lee,
I do not supportBill107,CDl (2022),initscurrentform. I own a workforce home, and have
participatedinseveralworkforcehousingprojectsas a draftsman.IunderstandthatBill107 lowersthesales
prices,and recognizethatisitdifficulttoqualifyfora home - both inwinning the lotteryand gettinga loan.
Being inthebuildingindustry,Iknow thattherearenot a lotof homes availableunder thecurrentprice
guidelines.By loweringtheaffordablehousingsalespriees,Ibelievetherewillbe even fewerhomes
available.I am working on a 100% affordableprojectthatwillnot be builtifthenew salespricesgo intoeffect.
Pleaseleavethesalespricesintheireurrentform.Insteadof loweringtheaffordablehousingsalespricesplease
considersubsidizingtheindividualbuyerswho need the help.
Mahalo
Sese
1
received
miJUL 12 PH H:2I
OFFIttE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
July 12, 2022
Council of the County of Maui
Re: Hale Waipu'ilaniWorkforce Housing Project(Kihei)(AH-17)
Dear Councilmembers:
The severe floodinginSouth Maui in December of lastyear demonstrated the
problems of poor planningdecisionsinthe past.South Maui isthe drainage basin
forthe southwest slopesof Haleakala,but itsfunctionto absorb flood waters has
been drasticallyimpaired by impermeable surfaces.
Homeowners and businesses elsewhere have sued local regulatoryagencies for
permitting construction invulnerable locations,that were then damaged by storm
and flood activity.Given what we know of climatechange and more severe
weather events, itisrisky,ifnot criminal,to buildinthe path of stormwaters.
Even ifmeasures are taken to limitflooding insubjectareas,the waters willbe
shunted to adjacent properties.Anyone buildinginwetlands and on shorelinesis
working on the "greaterfool" principlethat they can sellbefore the next disaster.
Do not put the County injeopardy of lawsuitsfrom outraged homeowners and
businessesthat have been impacted by unsound planningdecisions.
Iurge you to pursue a land swap solution to thisissueand leave the lotunder
discussionas drainage.
Thank you.
Diane E Shepherd DVM
3329 Kehala Dr.,Kihei,HI 96753
Count^GeH<
From:
Sent:
robinsibley<robin7winds@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9;18 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don’toftenget emailfrom robin7winds@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Robin Sibley
Please help us to get a home!
Sent from my iPad
u -.-I
Cl
;o
m
'Aa O-im m
OO <J ~n
fn-*
I
rn
oo
ro
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
Megan <megslorena@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 5:48 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom megslorena@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
OO
0“n
C"n
73Cheers,
Megan ^ mzo o
m●< U1
Oo *n
mm '^4
7:m VI
NO
1
Count^Clerk
JulaynaSmith <julaynasmith@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4;48 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom julaynasmith@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalol
Sent from my iPhone OO
:oO-n
mcz
50 O
rn
oo <Tl
7: m
O\_n
00
1
RECEIVED
MM. 14 PH 4: 13
Aloha Mike:
Subject: Bill107 (2022)
Reviewing the contents of Bill107 (2022),Ifind ithard to.b^Ueve that theOrr»CE Or TK£
County Councilwould supportsuch provisionsthatwc^(d(j)j^-^^t(Hi[r^^^ltothe
affordable housing program.
The guidelines provided by HUD isused to determine the feasibilityof any
affordable housing project. Alteringthe guidelineswould cause an imbalance of
the affordability,which willresultin eliminatingthose who need
homeownership the most.
We have experienced a seriesof events and inequities,particularlyinthe past
three years.These events have created huge adversities,most notably inthe
housing industry. Risingcosts for every commodity, together with inflationand
other factors(i.e.risinginterestrates)that have deterred developers from
creating new projects. The most challenging obstacle isuncertainty of avoiding
bankruptcy.
Istronglysuggest the following:
The County should provide the infrastructurefor any affordable housing
projects.Water, sewer, roads, fireprotection,curbs,gutters,sidewalks
utilities,etc.,then, create a specialassessment districtthrough the real
property tax system to pay for these improvements over a period of time.
This can be calculatedequitably for each new home owner.
2) Defer Bill107 as itreads currently.
3) Amend the Billso that developers and contractors willhave an
opportunity and an incentive to avoid losses. This normally resultsin a
significantcontribution to our community by providing bona fide
affordable housing projects.
4) Another option isprovidingsubsidiesto qualifiedbuyers who meet the
established criteriaby the Department of Housing and Human Concerns.
Mahalo for your successfulpassage of the realproperty tax billto benefit
veterans. Ifyou would liketo join our Maui Korean War Veterans general
membership meeting on Wednesday, July20, 9:00 AM at Hale Nanea, please let
me know.
1)
Respectfully,
Lloyd K. Sodetani
RECEIVEDAloha Chairperson Johnson, and members of the Affordable Housing
Committee: m JUL 15 AN 7:58
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
RE: Bill107(2022)
My name isLloyd Sodetani, life-longresident of Walluku, Maui. 1have served
on many state and county boards and commissions for the lastfivedecades. I
have alsoserved and continue to serve my community focusing on the needs of
our seniors through AARP and particularlyour veterans and servicemembers
who have been denied benefitsthey have earned. 1have activelybeen involved
as a developer, a realestate broker, and coordinator for affordable housing
projects,the largestand most successfulbeing Waiehu Terrace developed in
1985 through 1990, developed by HFDC (Hawaii Finance & Development
Corporation),a divisionof Hawaii Housing Authority.
Reviewing the contents of Bill107 (2022),Ifind ithard to believe that the
County Council would support such provisionsthat would be detrimental to the
affordable housing program.
The guidelinesprovided by HUD isused to determine the feasibilityof any
affordable housing project. Alteringthe guidelineswould cause an imbalance of
the affordability,which willresultin eliminatingthose who need
homeownership the most.
We have experienced a seriesof events and inequities,particularlyinthe past
three years.These events have created huge adversities,most notably inthe
housing industry. Risingcostsfor every commodity, together with inflationand
other factors(i.e.risinginterestrates)that have deterred developers from
creating new projects.The most challenging obstacle isuncertaintyof avoiding
bankruptcy.
Istrongly suggest the following:
1) The County should provide the infrastructurefor any affordablehousing
projects.Water, sewer, roads, fireprotection, curbs, gutters,sidewalks
utilities,etc.,then, create a specialassessment districtthrough the real
a
property tax system to pay for these improvements over a period of time.
This can be calculatedequitably for each new home owner.
2) Defer Bill107 as itreads currently.● ^
3) Amend the Billso that developers and contractors will have an. -j ● ● *
opportunity and an Incentive to avoid losses. This normally resultsin a
affordable housing projects.
4) Another option isproviding subsidiesto qualifiedbuyers who meet the
established criteriaby the Department of Housing and Human Concerns.
5)
Bill107 as reads, will not be a solution to our affordable housing crisis.Itwill
create a problem.
Respectfully,
Lloyd K. Sodetani
Count^|eH<
From:
Sent:
Chuck Spence <Chuck@mauisunseeker.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 9:16 AM
County Clerk
FW: TestimonyagainstBill21
20ZZJUL 1^ AM 9:To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom chuck@mauisunseeker.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Honorable County CouncilMembers
My husband and Iare stronglyopposed to Bill21 regardingthe restrictionand regulationof outdoor lightingin Maui
County.
Our firstreason foroppositionisthe inconsistencyof enforcement. Maui already has dark skieslaws that regulate light
pollutionbuy major hotelsand resortsand restaurantsgo unpunished for continuallyfloutingthe law. One only needs
to go to the largeresortsinWailea and Kaanapalito see massive up lightsthat shine continuously inflagrantviolationof
the laws. Because of the financialmight of the resortsand hotels,the County willhave littleabilityto enforce the laws
regulatingoutdoor lighting.That willresultinsecond classcitizensbearingthe burden of enforcement ofthisinane law
that you lookto pass.
Secondly,who and how willthe County enforce these laws and who willpay forthe enforcement? The very taxpayers
that are being cited? You certainlycannot send MPD out to enforce as they are stretchedthin already. Pleaseconsider
the aftereffectof passage seriously.
Thirdly,Maui isa dark islandalready.With the economy in difficultstraitsand crime on the rise,thiswillonly resultin
higher crime and, God forbid,more deaths on the road and on properties.Accidents willincreaseand the taw will
endanger the residentsand visitorsto the islands.
Fourth and finally,restrictingoutdoor lightingwillopen the County of Maui to lawsuitsof residentsand visitorsinjured
because of inadequatenighttimelighting.So inadditionto adding costsforenforcement, the taxpayerswhom you all
represent willalso be burdened with costsof a very litigioussocietylookingfor a reason to sue.
Mahalo foryour considerationand your vote AGAINST Bill21!
Sincerely,
Charles Spence & James Batchelder
Haiku, HI 96708
1
Count^^leH<
From:
Sent:
Hugh Starr<starr@maui.net>
Thursday, July14,2022 8:27 PM
County Clerk
Bill107, CD1 (2022)
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom starr@maui.net.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Chair Lee and Committee Members,
Maui isata difficult& problematicinflectionpointregardingcostofhousing,affordableor otherwise.
Inflationisvolatileand down rightfrightening...includingforhousing development; mortgage ratesarerising
and absolutelyunpredictable.
We're experiencinga literalPerfectStorm inHousing Costs inMaui County. Intentionsarelaudable,however
market conditionsaretooproblematictosupporta downward affordablehousing salespricingmandate. I am
unabletosupporttheBillasoffered;Ihope you'llagree.PleasereconsiderBill107,CDl (2022),initscurrent
form.
Thank you fordoingyour darndestforseekingrealsolutionsforour lessprivileged.
And Mahalo foryour service!!
OO
0^1
C2]
>—●
73
aloha, Hugh Starr,Makawao m
om
mVIK
oo n
mrn -H 9?
a71 in o
ts>
1
RECEIVEDCount^£lerk
mi JUL 13 PH H: 15From:
Sent;
Stillys<stillys(a)hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 3:53 PM
County Clerk
In support of Bill21 CD1 FD1
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom stillys@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilors,
When optionsare readilyavailableand being used successfullyon Hawaii Island,there isno excuse not to do
what we can on Maui, and statewide forthat matter, to protectour nativewildlifefrom distractingand harmful
brightoutdoorlighting.Iencourage you to supportBill21.
Respectfully,
Patricia Stillwell
Kihei
a Virus-free, www.avast.com
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
TerryStratton<terry2772@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:58AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61: workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom terry2772@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor iocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
Terry Stratton
&
OO
73O-n
mcn
20 o
m
-<
O <3o -n
mm-<
Tcrn
Ow
Ul
1
receivedCountyClerk
mi Jl)LI** PHFrom;
Sent:
RoderickSumagit <rsumagit@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 3:47 PM
County Clerk;Gabe Johnson
testimony againstbill21
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom rsumagit@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
My name isRoderick Sumagit. Iam the AthleticDirectorat Lana'iHigh and Elementary School. Iam testifyingagainst
the LightingBill21. Ihave concerns ifthisbillisimplemented. My major concerns willbe the safetyand securityof our
students and kupunas. Dark areas can cause unnecessary fallsand accidents.We allknow fulllightedareas can be
a deterrentforillegalactivities.As forathletics,itcould also pose a health and safetyconcern forFootballfor heat
illnessand fieldingpunts and kickoffs(poor vision).InSoftballand Baseballitcould impact fieldinga linedrive or
catchinga pop up or long flyball.Pleaseconsiderthe multiplesafetyand securityissuesifthisbillgets passed.
1
Count^£Ierk
From:
Sent:
Takahashi, Rie (KEA) <Rie.Takahashi@Fairmont.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 7:31 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from rie.takahashi@fairmont.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
Rie Takahashi
This e-mail,any attachments and the information contained therein ("thismessage") are confidentialand intended
solelyforthe use of the addressee(s).Ifyou have receivedthismessage inerrorpleasesend itback to the sender and
delete it.Unauthorized publication,use,disseminationor disclosureof thismessage, eitherinwhole or inpart isstrictly
prohibited.
Ce message electronique et tous lesfichiersjointsainsique lesinformationscontenues dans ce message (ciapres"le
message"), sont confidentielset destinesexclusivement a i’usagede lapersonne a laquelleilssont adresses.Sivous avez
recu ce message par erreur,merci de lerenvoyer a son emetteur et de ledetruire.Toute diffusion,publication,totaleou
partielleou divulgationsous quelque forme que ce soilnon expressement autoriseesde ce message, sont interdites.
oo
O rtT
cn
"im
70
m
o
m-<
OO <Tl
mm
73X
CO
ao
I
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Rie Takahashi <minoriechan(g)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 7:32 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toften get email from minoriechan@Qmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavor of Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
C-1 73
m
om-< v-n moo
<
m H m
-X ao
1
RECEIVEDCount^^lerk
mi JUL m PH 1=22From:
Sent:
LoriTanaka <tanakainmaui(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 1:09 PM
County Clerk
Testimony to Oppose Bill21 on Outdoor Lighting
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom tanakainmaui@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council Members:
Pleasevoteno on Bill21. I understandMs. King wants to save the
shearwaters,butthisbillwillimpact Maui County both economically,
culturallyand socially.
From a cursoryglanceatthebilland from hearingMs. King'sinterview
on lastnight'snews herearemy reasonsto be againstthe bill:
1.The costto Maui'speopleto change alloutdoorlightingwillbe
prohibitive.Businessesand Non-Profitsand regularpeople willbe
impacted.The costof livingon Maui ishigh enough without adding
more of a financialburden on the people—the costoutweighs the
benefit.
2.According to Wedge-tailed Shearwater - Maui Nui Seabird Recovery
Project (mauinuiseabirds.org) the shearwaters are not
endangered. And catsdo more harm to nestingsitesand can take out
a whole colony—maybe Ms. King should targetferalcatsinsteadof
lighting?
3. Ifthisbillpasses,say goodbye to Obon (which isa Japanese religious
tradition);MIL football,track,and baseball;nightlightingfortennis
courtsand stadiums fornighttimeusers(tennisplayers,picklebailers,
people who utilizethe stadium forwalking);lightingatbeach parks
willbe gone leavingthem dark and dangerous forus regularpeople.
4. Outside path lightingwillhave to be changed or eliminatedif
businessesor nonprofitsdon'thave the funds to change them.
5.Road constructionwhich isdone atnightwillneed to be done during
the day ifthey can'tgetthe lightsrequiredby thisbill.
Thank you foryour time. 1 hope my testimonyisnottoo late—Iwas just
made aware of thisfrom lastnight'snews.
Thank you,
Lori Tanaka
Lori M. Tanaka
871 KoluSt. #201
Wailuku, HI 96793
Ph: 808-242-6861
FAX: 808-244-7287
2
Count^£Ied<
From:
Sent:
WillTang <will.s.tang@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:49 PM
County Clerk
Writtenfeedback regardinglightfixturesruleBill21
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom will.s.tang@gmaii.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Hi,
Ihope you're doing well! IrealizeI'ma littlelate{about 12 hours before the meeting insteadof 24),but 1wanted to
provide some feedback about the proposal to ban alloutdoor lightfixturesthat have any blue light.
With the uptickin recent crime, Idon't think the timing iscorrectforthisbill.1liveina quiet part of Haiku that has seen
an increaseinburglaries,and making thingsdarker around here isdefinitelynot going to help.
1thinkthe billiswritteningood spirits,but there are no reasonable alternativesfor residentiallightingat the
moment. The ruleshould not come before any alternativesare available.Even then, inflationisreallyhurtingus now,
and replacingmy outdoor solarlightswould be a costthat'sdifficultto bear for many of us. Please considerthe timing
of thisbill-itshould onlycome afterreasonablealternativesare availableto regular consumers, and afterthe economy
settlesdown so that those alternativesare more reasonablypriced.
At the very least,ithinkitshould onlyaffectcorporationslikehotelsand resortsthat have the abilityto replacetheir
lightswith lightsthat have no blue color. I'm not againstthiscolor- as itis,my lightsare a warm white - but
corporations have better access to these lightsthan we have. Idon't know of any outletthatsellslightcompletely
lackinginblue. Residentialcompliance could be phased in over a longer time, only afteralternativesare even available
and inflationisn'thittingus allquiteso hard.
Thank you so much!
wi
oo
O
C*n
73
m
Z o5^ m-<
Oo
mm-4
33X 9?
o ^KjJ
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
ze?2JUL H PH I? 50From:
Sent:
Cassandra Tengan <tenganca@gmail.com>
Thursday, July14,2022 12:31 PM
County Clerk
outdoor lightordinances
To: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom tenganca@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Hello,
I don't liveon Maui but I heard about the ordinance on the news thismorning. They did not seem infavorof the move
and I'veread onlinecomments about how people were opposed to it.Iam not reallyfamiliarwith what isgoing on over
on Maui but have you talked about the "InternationalDark Sky Community"? There isan actualassociationwith cities
that have achieved thislabelallover the world. Ifyou use thismodel you might have a betterchance of getting your
constituents to buy into it.I'veread allsorts of comments about government and privateproperty but no concern over
nature thatwe are negativelyimpacting.The factthatthere isa certificationmight motivate more people to buy into
thisideathatsmallchanges can make a bigdifference.Iwas alertedto thisshiftfrom a BBC article.You should alsotalk
to these differentcommunities to see how they achieved itand how they got theircommunities to buy into.Iwas born
and raisedon Oahu and am reallyterrifiedof allofthe incomers to our islandswho are making decisionsfor a placethat
they are not connected to.You are doing thisfornativeseabirds who deserve our protectionjustas much as a private
property owner who thinksyou shouldn'tbe able to make impacts on theirhomes. Iwish you allthe best and hope you
are able to pullitoff.
Sincerely,
Cassandra Tengan
1
Count^^CleHc
kovalevchik< kovalevchik@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 6:10AM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom kovalevchik@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
S.Yana Torgan, RDH, BS
Localhouselessworkforce, aka the working poor.
OO
730"n
50
m
o808-276-8700
m-<
Oo
m<9
ao
ut
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Yoko Toyama <coco.yoko@kw.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:34 PM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousing at HaleWaipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom coco.yoko@kw.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingforlocalfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
X
1
f-? MAUI Oo0"n 73C-TI
m2cCHAMBER OF COMMERCE OUl rriQVOICE OF BUSINESS o
m H
33X
xni
fn
Qw
Resolution 22-119
Establishing a Maui Nui Community Water Systems and
An East Maui Regional Community Board
Friday, July 15 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
And Members of the Maui County Council,
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would liketo request thatthisresolutionbe deferred
to the next Council term.We are already dealingwith a big electionyear with more
candidates due to redistrictingas well as many Charter Amendment questionsthathad
significantcommunity inputthrough the Charter Commission. This isa very
complicated issue thatneeds significantvetting,exploration,and community input.We
realizethe Board ofWater Supply spent a long time on thisitem,butwe feelmore
discussionfrom experts on ailsides isneeded.
This amendment has the potentialto be very expense increatingyet another new
county agency and a fullfiscaland management (asthisisa tremendous amount of
water system management thatneeds to be wellunderstood)impact analysisis
important.While we appreciatethata resolutionto do a feasibilitystudy ison today’s
agenda, as we note inour testimony on thatitem,thisanalysisshould be completed,
with resultsreleased to the publicwell before the electionso they can understand all
aspects ofthisproposal beforeconsideringthe amendment. We understandthiscould
also potentiallyresultinexpensive legaland eminent domain challengesand these
possible issue should be explored before consideringthisfurther.
Additionally,while we are not water systems experts,we understand thereisa lotto
water system management and we feelyou should hear from each ofthe currentwater
system managers to betterunderstand the annual expenses, upkeep, personnel
requirements, experience needed, etc.via a publicforum.
808-244^081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
M AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
- H- m
' (K
Resolution 22-119
Friday, July 15 2022
Page 2.
Lastly,whilewe understand the Councilcan always put forthCharter Amendments via
resolution,on years where there isa Charter Commission, we stronglyfeelthat any
proposed amendments should run through the commission. This isa more transparent
system where broader community vettingcan occur by the publicand commissioners
and items are reviewed over a longer period of time,which isimportantgiven the
significanceofcharteramendments and thatcommunity education should be
conducted.
For these reasons, we respectfullyask thatResolution22-119 CD1 FD1 be deferred to
the next Council term and a feasibilitystudy be conducted in the meantime.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto providetestimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
forbusiness,advocatingfora responsivegovernment and
qualityeducation,while preservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
MAUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE oo
:xj0"n
mVOICE OF BUSINESS
O
"im mResolution 22-144, CD1, FD1
Community Plan Area Planning Commissions
Friday, July 15, 2022
\n<
O <o 3-n
r"
mm H to
OUi
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
ss
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to offer our strong opposition to
Resolution 22-144which proposes to amend the Maui County Charter to establish
planning commissions forallcommunity plan areas on Maui, and dissolve the Maui
Planning Commission.
The Chamber urges the Council to filethisresolutionsince thisissue was carefully
discussed and thoroughlyvetted inthe currentMaui County Charter Commission. We
feelthe Charter Commission amendment accepted by the Council to require more
geographic representationisa much betteridea versus creating additional
commissions. Creating additionalcommissions foreach area would be very costlyand
greatlyincrease the number of volunteers needed to serve, according to the reports
submitted to the Charter Commission. Right now, we need to focus on priorityprojects
and do not understand the rationaleforproposing big changes to thismajor
commission structure and what issues need to be solved by thisproposal.
Additionally,we are already dealingwith a big electionyear with more candidates due
to redistrictingas wellas many Charter Amendment questions thatalready had
significantcommunity inputthrough the Charter Commission. We do not thinkthere is
enough time forin-depthpublicdiscussionand votereducation on thistopic,given the
current timeline. We iDelieve we should see what the voters decide on the current
Charter Commission proposal on the planning commissions before adding another
amendment.
For these reasons we respectfullyrequest thatthisresolutionbe filed.Mahalo forthe
opportunityto provide testimony.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
forbusiness, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,while preservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.coniMauiChamber.com62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793
OO
7)O-n
J'-'?MAUI m
z.o O"im m\y\<
oo <3CHAMBER OF COMMERCE -n
mrn~<
VOICE OF BUSINESS a7^ iTI
Resolution 22-158/No. 22-67
Authorizing Proceedings in Eminent Domain for the Acquisition
Of Real Property Located at 5384 Lower Honoapiilani Road
Friday, July 15, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
And Members of the Maui County Council,
This isa challenging situation.While the Maui Chamber of Commerce generally
doesn't support eminent domain because we feelthereare other solutions,thisisa
unique situationas mistakes were made on both sides and the owner of thisparticular
property has been before the Council on other occasions with land use issues.
Therefore, we believe this case warrants a differentreview.
While eminent domain isan option,we are concerned about the overallcosts as the
process and resultingcourt case could take years and be a significantexpense to our
community. As a result,we thinkadditionaldata and evidence should be shared and
more publiceducation should be done on what isentailedin the process of eminent
domain and what the court will and won’t consider when making a determination on
the fairmarket value of the property.This isimportantfor the community as we vet this
optionsincethe we willbe paying the priceforthe mistakes made on allsides.
As thisauthorizesthe startofthe process of potentiallyobtaining the property by
eminent domain and surveys and evaluationshave not yet been completed, we and
others noted itispremature to specifya proposed structureuse. We understand that if
thisproperty istaken foreminent domain, itwould need to be for a publicpurpose, but
we have many top prioritiesand thinkthe proposed use should have broader
community inputbefore a decisionismade. Inthe past,there has been precedence
set where a buildingwas dismantled and ifthatoccurs with thisstructure,then broader
property use options could be considered.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony.
Sincerely:
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,while preservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
MAUI r*«j
oo
CTl
*im
73
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE m
oBUSiNiSSA
mcn●<
O
pm <
mmH
:xjX OResolution 22-171
Water FeasibilityStudy
Friday, July 15, 2022
ui
xz
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
And Members of the Maui County Council,
We understand that water infrastructure is criticaland we allwant efficientlymanaged
water systems that best support our county overallin an equitable way. Itisimperative
thatwe examine the costs to best manage these systems, as well as conduct an
analysison managing, repairing/maintaining,and expanding such systems. Expert
opinions on thiswork, the cost,who isbest suited to manage these systems (public/
private),and the cost foralternativesisextremely importantto have before making any
decisions on thismatter.While we trulyappreciatethisresolutionto startthe process
of the feasibilitystudy and feelthisisa necessary step based on how criticalwater
management isto our overallsustainability,thisshould not be rushed. Itdoes not
seem feasibleto properlyconduct thisstudy and releasethe resultsto the publicprior
to the election,especiallysince votingoccurs earlierwith mail invoting.
Therefore,we stronglyrequest thatthisfeasibilitystudy be conducted firstand the
appropriatetime be taken to complete the study before a charteramendment be put
forward so the publiccan get a fullanalysisand have a chance to ringinat the Council
level.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony on thisbill.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthy economic environment
for business, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,whilepreservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244^81 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
oo
0*0
●im
m
MAUI o
mVI<
o
p-n
TJX
7^m
<3
rnCHAMBER OF COMMERCE
Ow
VOICE OF BUSINESS
CR 22-61 / Resolution 22-131
Approving Development of the Hale Waipu’ilani Housing Project
Friday, July 15, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez,
And Members of the Maui County Council,
We are ina housing crisisand itisoftenvery challengingto build100% affordable
housing projects.While we understand concerns about thisprojectbeing ina major
flood plainand the risksassociated with that,we also understand the developer is
lookingat ways to mitigatethe risksand floodinsurance would be available.While it
may not be the most desirable location,itisaffordablehousing thatisso desperately
needed and there would be disclosureto potentialhomebuyers so they understand the
riskand can make a choice.Itmay not be the choice some would make, but we think
about the example on the Big Islandwhere people bought land and builthomes on
volcanicrock ina known volcano danger zone and they understood no insurance was
available.However, they stillchose to buy the land and buildthere and theirfamilies
had many wonderful years before they saw issues/devastation.We don’twish such
devastation on anyone, but itisimportant to give people the option because they are
also strugglingby not having housing now and the availabilityof floodinsurance
provides a layerof security.For these reasons, we support the resolutionto approve
thisprojectand appreciatethe Council’sconsiderationand support.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto provide testimony on thisbill.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
for business, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,whilepreservingMaui's unique community
characteristics.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Count^^Clerk
From:
Sent:
EstelitaUlibas<ulibasesteiita@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9;10 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom ulibasestelita@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers.
Mahalo!
n
●n
m
Hm o
V/1 m
o
9?;ox
t; rn CD
NJ
1
Count^^lerJ<
AprilValdez <aprilmay8086@gmail.com>
Friday,July15,2022 8:36AM
County Clerk
We supportResolution22-61:workforcehousingat HaleWaipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom apriimay8086@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore
buyers.
Mahalo!
Otj
ow
73
mc::
om
-< m
oo "3 <
mnH
O
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clerk
2012JULI AH 8=07From:
Sent:
Suparna Vashisht <suparnavashisht@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, July13,2022 6:52 PM
County Clerk
Isupport Bill21 (CD1 FD1)!
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COU24TY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom suparnavashisht@vahoo.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha County CouncilMembers! My name isSuparnaVashisht,and IfullysupportBill21 (CDl FDl) that
addressesharmfuloutdoorlightinginordertoprotectour dark nightskiesforour human health,astronomy and
our nativewildlife.We trulyappreciateyour work on thisand lookforwardtoyour voteof support.Mahalo nui
loa!
Suparna Vashisht
4850 Makena Alanui Rd, B202,
Kihei, HI 96753
1
County Clerk RFrnvED
im JUL 11 AM 7:58
From:
Sent:
ChristineVeazey <ceveazey@yahoo.com>
Saturday,July9,2022 8:29 PM
County Clerk
Subject:Maui Water
To:
Subject: >ICE OF THE
UNTY CLERK
.j
y s-/
I You don'toftengetemailfrom ceveazey@yahoo.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupportthe creationof the Maui Community Water Authority.
From
ChristineVeazey
2266 Lilikoi Rd.
Haiku, HI 96708
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
County^lerjc
From:
Sent:
Mark Virgino<mvirgino@hawaii.edu>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:23AM
County Clerk
Testimony forKellyKings billon nighttime lighting
To:
Subject:
[You don’toften get email from mvirgino@hawaii.edu. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Hi,
Pleasedon'tletthisbillpass.Ifeelthathavingthisbillpass willmake people feellesssafe.There are people that
walk/run inthe earlymorning and nightwhere the lightsare needed. Without thisIbelievethat crime rateswould
increasewith the decrease of visibility.There are people that work during the day and the only time they can exerciseis
afterwork which might be dark and not having lightsat night would prevent them from being able to go out and
exerciseor do theirhobbies likesports.
Thank you,
Mark Virgino
3
DO
73O 'Ti
C-n m
Z.o o●im m4=-<
oo <-n
mm-H
:cx O
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
mi JUL |i< AH 8:07Laura Vo <lauravo@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, July13,2022 7:00 PM
County Clerk
Support fornew outdoor lightingordinancevote on 7/15/22
From:
Sent:
To:
OmCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom lauravo@hawaii.edu.Learnwhy thisisimportant
July 13, 2022
Dear Maui County Council,
Helloand thank you fortakingthe time to review my strong,unequivocal support of the updates and improvements to
the lightingordinance in Maui County. Imoved to Maui severalyears ago and have been amazed at how much the light
pollutionhas increasedinthe justthe shorttime I'vebeen here. Iencourage allof you to look up tonightat the night
sky,ideallybefore the stillalmost fullmoon isout (ha!).Can any of you even see the Milky Way inyour backyard?
Lightpollutionisjustthat-pollution.And itisthe most amazingly simple one to solveout of allof our current pollution
problems. One simplyturnsoffthe lights.
I'm seeing2 primary complaints on socialmedia or inthe comments on localnews outletsagainstthisproposed
ordinance.Firstare folkswho thinkthat puttingany kind of lightingordinance intoplayissome kindofviolationof their
rightsand too much government involvement. To that Isay,wow! you clearlyhave no idea that we alreadydo have a
lightingordinance inplace.Also,what a skewed and selfishview of who has rightsand who doesn't.Icould easily
counter argue that my rightsat home of being able to enjoy my space are violatedevery time someone has a bright,
unshielded lightthat shineson my property and createsglare.How am Isupposed to measure the arcseconds between
a binarystarsystem out of my telescopeifallIcan see isa neighbor'slightthat isilluminatingthe underside of a tree at
2am when they aren'teven outsideto enjoy lookingup thattree?That argument doesn'thold because itissolidlyone
sided on both sides.So,tosscomplaints of thatfirstvarietyaway, they have no weight.
The second common complaint isregardingsecurityissuesifone can'thave bright,blue spectrum LED lightsglaringall
over, allnight because itmakes them feelsafe.News flash:brightoutdoor lightsdon’t prevent
crime, https://www.darkskv.org/light-pollution/lightine-crime-an d-safetv/Itwas even from a study inthe Journalof
Epidemology and Community Health,not some FaceBook post that has no data.So your lightsdon'tmake you safer.
Nice try,bird haters.
Now on to the environmental aspects.Yes, Iam allinforthese birdswho never asked any human to be here on this
islandwith them. Yet here we allare,making itharder forthem to simply stayalive.Inadditionto betteringour natural
environment for birdsand turtlesand probably a lotof bugs,too,it'salsohelpfulforanyone who enjoysa greatview of
our collectiveheritageas humans- the nightsky! Factually,we are stardust.Culturallywe allhave tiesto the storiesand
wonder that isthe nightsky.As an amaetur astronomer, yeah Iwant to see the nightsky,but Iwant everyone to see it.
It'samazing! Ican'tsee it,you can'tsee it,your grandkids can'tsee itifthislightpollutiongets any worse than italready
is.And ifthe birds,turtles,and stellarviews aren'tenough to pullat your heart stringsperhaps considerthe science.
Are you familiarwith Pan-STARRS telescopes on the summit of Haleakala?Ireallyencourage you to do a quick little
search ifyou are not familiar.Itisnothing short of incredible.It'stechnology isused to search the sky forobjectsthat
might make impact with our planet.Ifwe can'tlocatesomething thatwillkillallof us fasterthan an nuclearweapon
then tellme, what value isthere in lightingthe outside of your house or glaringunnecessary lightsat a resort.What is
anything for in such a case? I'dlikefor the astronomers who operate and sortthe data from Pan-STARRS to be able to
1
continuetheirjobs.Too much lightpollutionisgoingto make itharderand harderto detectfaintobjectsuntilthey are
too close.
I'vedefinitelywaxed a bitmore poeticthan Iintended.However, thiscomes from the heart.Ireally,reallyhope that you
all,or at leasta majorityof you, pass thisordinance to decrease the currentlightpollutionon Maui and prevent itfrom
getting even worse.
Many kind and sincerethanks fortakingthe time to read this.
May we allhave dark skies,
Laura Vo
Kula, HI 96790
2
RECEIVEDTestimony insupport of Bill21 CD1 FD1 (as proposed by the CARE committee)
mi JULH PH *1=25
Richard J Wainscoat
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKrjw@hawaii.edu
Iam an astronomer at the Universityof Hawaii, and have worked for many years on lighting
issues relatedto preserving the dark night sky forastronomy.
Istronglysupport Bill21 GDI FD1. This billcloselyparallelsthe lightingordinance that is
presently in place inthe County of Hawaii. That lightingordinance has successfullyprotected
the dark nightsky over Maunakea, and has also helped to protect endangered species on the
Island of Hawaii.
Maui’s lightingformany years has been mostly high-pressuresodium (HPS) lighting.A
spectrum of an HPS lamp isshown below:
1,0
[*Kj
0.8
0,7
>.
^0,6
V/.9
OJ
>
JS0,4
<r
03
0.1
380 4 20 4 60 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
This spectrum shows that HPS lamps are deficientinblue and green light.Blue light,and to a
lesserdegree, green light(because of Rayleigh scattering)are very damaging to astronomy.
Furthermore, the naturaldark night sky isvery dark inthe blue and green wavelengths shorter
than 555 nm (yellow-greencolor).This makes the blue-green partof the spectrum particularly
valuable forastronomy.
Astronomers recognize the need for lightat night,but stronglyfavor use of yellow,amber,
orange and red light.In addition proper shielding— fullshielding — iscriticallyimportant.
Endangered species such as birds and turtlesare also affected by lightat night.The
wavelengths of lightthathave the strongestaffecton most species are blue light,and to a
lesserdegree, green light.Therefore,the preferredlightingto protect endangered species is
also fullyshielded yellow,amber, orange and red light.The spectralrequirements forprotecting
these species are similarto what is needed to protect the dark night sky over Haleakala
observatory forastronomy.
Lightemittingdiodes (LEDs) have come intowidespread use. Nearly every LED lightisbased
upon an InGaN blue LED, and a phosphor that converts some (orall)of the blue lightto longer
(redder)wavelengths. Many LED lightshave much more blue lightthan HPS, so a switchover in
Maui County from HPS to LED must be done very carefully,with great care not to increase the
amount of blue light.
Some sample LED spectra are shown below:
0.2
0.1
0.0
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
Phosphor Converted amber - thisiswidely available,and consistent with the Bill21 CD1 EDI
blue lightlimitations.This lightisacceptable to astronomy and is likelyacceptable for
protectionof birds and turtles.Ithas an amber appearance. In Florida,amber lightwith an
even narrower spectrum ispreferred for protection of turtles,but narrow amber LEDs are less
energy efficientthan phosphor converted amber LEDs.
380 4 20 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
Filteredwarm (3000 K) LED — thisisinwide usage on the Islandof Hawaii,ithas very little
blue light,but bettercolorrenditionthan HPS. This isacceptableto astronomy,but could be
improved forbirdand nightsky protectionby adjustingthe base LED and the filterto reduce
the amount of green light.This lightisslightlymore energy efficientthan PC amber. Ithas a
yellow appearance. The energy efficiencyof the filteredwarm LED might make thisan
attractivelightsource forMaui. Astronomy and wildlifewould benefitfrom use of a warmer
base LED (e.g.,2500 K) behind a blue cut filter,which would reduce the amount of green light.
Such a lightwould have a colorsimilarto a candle.
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
3000 K LED - this has a much largeramount of blue light,and also more green light.Use of
3000 K LEDs willcause degradation of the nightsky for astronomy, and harm birdsand turtles.
Use of even higher colortemperature LEDs iseven worse due to higher biue content.
Iam a coauthor of a publication entitled“Modelling the effectsof phosphor converted LED
lightingto the nightsky of the Haieakala Observatory, Hawaii” published in 2018 inthe journal
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.That publication concludes that use of
3000 K LEDs would resultinthe scotopic sky brightness (sky brightness inthe blue and green)
being 3 times higher than ifphosphor converted amber is used. This publication is included
with thistestimony.
380 4 20 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
Cree 3000 K LED - thisisa very poor choice foroutdoor lighting.Itiseffectivelya -4000 K
white LED to which a largeamount of red lighthas been added to pulldown the color
temperature. The spectrum of thislightshows why use of CorrelatedColor Temperature isan
inadequate way to limitthe spectrum of a lightsource. The human eye isinsensitiveto the blue
and red light,but the lightfrom thislamp would be very damaging to astronomy and harmfulto
species affected by blue and red light.
Fullshieldingof lightingiscriticallyimportant.Unshielded lighttravelsgreatdistances,and
interfereswith astronomy and wildlife.Spectral controlisalsocriticallyimportant.Bill21 GDI
FD1 takes good steps to controlthe spectral content of lightby limitingblue light.Extensive
use of 2700 K, 3000 K (orhigher)LED light,such as ispresentlyoccurringon Maui isvery
harmful to astronomy (and wildlife).
m\ZUU.2MU1
^hrROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY
doi;10.1093/mnras/sty1143MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
Advance Access publication2018 May 17
Modelling the effectsof phosphor converted LED lightingto the night sky
of the Haleakala Observatory, Hawaii
M. Aube/* A. Simoneau/ R. Wainscoat^and L. Nelson^I
Cegep (leSherbrooke,475, rue du Cegep, Sherbrooke,Quebec JIE 4KI, Canada
^Bishop'sUitiversily,2600rueCollege,Sherbrooke,Quebec JIM IZ7, Canada
^InsliluleforAstronomy,UniversityofHawaii.2680Woodtawn D,rHonolulu,HI 96822, USA
Accepted 2018 April 28. Received 2018 April 27; inoriginalform 2018 February27
O
o
.3
O
ABSTRACT
The goal of thisstudy istoevaluatethecurrentlevelof lightpollutionin the nightsky atthe
HaleakalaObservatoryon theislandof Maui inHawaii.This isaccomplishedwith a numerical
model that was tested in the firstInternational Dark Sky Reserve locatedin Mont-Megantic
NationalPark inCanada. The model usesground dataon theartificiallightsourcespresentin
the regionof study,geographicaldata,and remotelysensed data for(1)The nightlyupward
radiance,(2) The terrainelevation,and 3) The ground spectralreflectanceof the region.
The resultsof the model give a measure of the currentstateof the sky spectralradianceat
the HaleakalaObservatory.Then, using thecurrentstateas a referencepoint,multiplelight
conversionplans are elaboratedand evaluatedusing the model. We can thus estimatethe
expected impact of each conversionplan on the nightsky radiancespectrum.A complete
conversionto white lightemittingdiodes(LEDs) with correlatedcolourtemperatureof 4000
and 3000 K are contrastedwith a conversionusing phosphore-convertredamber LEDs. We
includerecommendations concerningthe streetlamps to be used in sensitiveareaslikethe
citiesof Kahului and Kihei,and suggestbestlightingpracticesrelatedto thecolourof lamps
used atnight.
Key words: radiativetransfer-lightpolulion.
0)
Q.
CD
Q.
O
3
S’
3
■D
CO
0)
O
0)
Q.
CP
3
o
o
T3
O
O
3
33
0)
VI
0)
:x
o
CP
4^
->1
CO
-si
Cfl
CD
CO
CO
CO
<3
itdifficulttoidentifythe originof thesky radiancefluctuationsbe
causeone shouldrecordatthesame timemany otherquantitiessuch
as theaerosolopticaldepth(AOD) and Angstrom coefficienta (or
the concentration,chemical composition,and sizedistributionof
aerosols).Another factoraffectingobservationsisthatlow-altitude
clouds below the observersometimes block and suppressartificial
lightfrom ground based sources(Pedani 2004; Ribas et al.2016).
Our analysisassumes the more common case of clearsky without
low-altitude clouds.
One other way to evaluatethe evolutionof the sky radianceis
the use of a radiative transfer model that allows the selection of
diversevaluesof thekey variablesidentifiedabove,hence allowing
(hem tobe maintainedatsome predefinedfixedvalues.Many night
sky brightnessmodels have been constructedsincethe 1980s.Some
arebased on homogeneous or simplisticgeographicaldescriptions
of thekey variablesliketheGarstangmodel (Garstang1986).Ac
cordingtothispaper,a citycan be modelled as a perfectcircleof
constantground levellightflux,ground reflectance,and angular
emissionfunction.Moreover,thetopographyisflatand thesecond-
orderof scatteringisnot explicitlycalculated.Some improvements
of theGarstangmodel have been proposed (Luginbuhletal.2009;
Cinzano & Falchi2012) tominimize theselimitations.Recent mod
els take account of the complexity of the environment and hence
4^
1 INTRODUCTION cr
(O
The evaluationof the nightsky spectralradianceunder clearcon
ditionsis a complex task given the largenumber of dependant
variables.Indeed,Aube (2015) showed thatthe sky radianceisa
non-trivialfunctionof theaerosoland molecularatmosphericcon
tentalong with thegeographicaldistributionof anthropogeniclight
sources on the ground and theirrelationshipwith the nearby opti
cal and geometricalpropertieslikethe underlyingground spectral
reflectance,the topography,and the presence of small to medium
size blocking obstacles(e.g.treesand buildings).Many factors
arc variablewith time likeground reflectance,treefoliage,aerosol
concentrationand compositionprofiles,sportslighting,ornamen
tallights,and car headlights.The largevariancein some of the
key variableshas been notedby many authors(Dobleret al.2015;
Meier 2018),and thisresultsin a largevarianceinthe inferredsky
brightnessdata (Aube 2007; Fatal2008; Falchi2011; Pun & So
2012; Aube et al.2014; Puschnig,Posch & Uttcnthalcr2014; Pun
etal.2014; Kyba etal.2015; Sanchez dc Miguel 2015;Sanchez de
Miguel et al.2017).This variationin the drivingvariablesmakes
CD
CO
O
3
4>-
c
'<
ho
o
N3
hO
■ E-mail:martin.aube@cegepsherbrookc.cic.ca
©2018 The Author(s)
Publi.shcdby Oxford UniversityPresson behalfof the Royal Astronomical Society
ModellingthenightskyofHaleakala Obs.,HI nil
0,0150
^MSR Fluorescent
High pressure sodium0.0125 ●
S 0.0100-o>
0.0075-
01
>
●5 0.0050 ●^0
0)
^ 0.0025 ●
n 0.0000
550 600 650 700400 450 500
Wavelength (nm)\
Figure 2. Photopicnormalizedspectraof high-intensitydischargelamps.
The LPS spectrum has been reduced by a factor15 forscale.
O
o
3
0.003 - o
0)2? Q.
CDc
Q.
B 0.002 -C
o
3>
3"3 0.001 - 30)
T3<£
MRR «
0.000 0)
s600 650 700450 500 550400 Q.
CDWavelength (nm) 3
Figure 1. Opiic.alpath consideredin the calculationof the artificialsky
radiance in the lllumina model, ‘o’ is the virtual observer, ‘n’ a voxel in
the lineof sight,‘s’a cellcontaininga lightsource,‘m’ arevoxelswhere
second-orderscatteringoccurs,and ‘r’isa voxelwhere lightreflectsoffthe
ground. ‘MRR’ isthe maxim.!! reflectionradius,the di.stancewithinwhich
lightcan reflectofftheground,and ‘MSR’ isthemaximal scatteringradius,
the distancewithin which second-orderscatteringisbeing considered(Aube
2007).
o
o
Figure 3. Photopicnormalizedspectraof LED lamps. c
●o
8
of our knowledge, an in-deptanalysisof the validityof thatas
sumption has notyetbeen made. Based on some estimatesmade
priortothemodel design,onlyfourkindsofopticalpathsareworth
consideringwhen tryingtoattaina ^ 1percentprecision.Actually,
Aube (2015)showed thatforlow aerosolloadings(AOD « 0.1),the
contributionof the second-orderof scatteringisgenerallylower in
sidethecityperimeter(«s7percent),butthispercentageincreases
rapidlywhen exitingthe city.The maximum contributionof the
second-orderof scatteringisobtainednearthecitylimit,where it
can reach38 percentwithouttheblockingeffectgeneratedby ob
stacles.Previousmodellingexperimentswe conductedshowed that
for moderate distanceto the source (<30km) the contributionof
thethirdorderofscatteringislowerthan 1percentofthetotal.This
resultisconfirmedby Kocifaj(2018a)who statedthathigherorder
of scatteringare negligibleup to 30 km from the sourceforblue
lightand up to60 km forredlight.Sinceourmain lightsourcesare
locatedwithin30 km oftheobservatory,we can neglecthigherscat
teringorders.For thatreason,only firstand second-orderscattering
with and without a reflectionfrom the ground underneaththe light
.sourceare computed.
The basicSPDs used in thisstudy arc presentedin Figs 2 and 3.
The base LOPs are presentedin Fig.4.
3
3D
0>
w
Q>
3.
o
to
4^
CO
§are more realisticwith regardsto realsituations(Baddiley2007;
Kocifaj2007;Luginbuhletal.2009; Cinzano & Falchi2012; Aube
2015; Falchiet al.2016; Aube & Simoncau 2018).
-'j
O)
4..
CO
CD
CD
CO
(J)
2 DATA 4^
CT
●<
The model used in thisstudy iscalledlllumina(Aube et al.2005;
Aube 2015; Aube & Simoneau 2018).The model simulatestheread
ingof a virtualspectrometerby usingray-tracingtechniquesalong
with statisticalselectionof tracingphotons.A virtualinstrumentor
observer is located on the voxel based simulation domain charac
terizedby a radiantfluxmap of the lightsourceson the territory,
by the angularphotometry and spectralpower distribution(SPD)
of theselightsources,and by a descriptionof the environment’s
physicalproperties.The positionand directionof observationof
the observerdefinesa tineof sightalong which any scatteredlight
can propagatetowiu’dsthevirtualinstrumentand hencebe detected.
The model calculatesa statisticallyselectedsetof possibleoptical
pathsfrom the lightsourcesin thedomain toevery pointon theline
of sight,takingintoaccount multiplescatteringsand reflections
along the way (See Fig. I).By adding the contributionof every
opticalpath,the totalartificialsky brightnessisobtained.
Some assumptionsare made to facilitatethe calculations.Due
to the factthata cellcovers an area of one square kilometre,the
variationsin the angular lightoutput pattern(LOP) with the az
imuthal angle are neglectedsince an area of thissizeisexpected
to contain many lightsources and thattheirorientationcan vary
greatlydepending on the way the streetsare designed.To the best
CO
c
(D
(/)
O
3
4^
c
M
O
M
tsj
2.1 Modelling domain characteristics
The domain is a 500 x 400 km rectanglecentredon (20.306N,
156.442W) inthespatialreferencesystemNAD83(HARN)AJTM
zone 04N (EPSG:3750). This envelopes most of the Hawaii
archipelago,with the exclusionof Kauai island.The virtualob
serverislocatedatthe Haleakalaobservatoryon theIslandof Maui
(20.708N, 156.257W) looking at20° of elevationand with an az
imuthalangleof 292°.This isactuallypointingtowardsHonolulu.
Fig.5 shows theterrainvisibleby an observerlocated20 ftabove
the Haleakalaobservatoryindirectlineof sight,meaning thatitis
not blockedby thetopography.To produce themaps we tookinto
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
1778
Kahulgj.
Lanai
180*
Figure 4. LOPs used by the model. The percentage representsthe ULOR
of the lamp.
account the Earth’.s curvature. One can see that most of Honolulu
isin theshadow. The main citieson Big Islandarcalsocompletely
in the shadow. However, closerto the observatoryon Maui island,
both the cities of Kihei and Kahului are in the direct lineof sight,
with Kahului being the most illuminated.Both citiesarc near the
observatorywithina distanceof 30 km.
In those cities,most buildingsarc singlestory structureswith
few trees.All of thismakes itso thatthe publiclightsources are
typicallyabove everythingelse,with very few obstaclesblocking
the lightfrom directlyescapingthecity.
The average obstacleheight,distance,and fillingfactoras well
as theaverage heightof the lightsources were estimatedby random
sampling and are shown in Table 1.We mostly focused on the
brightestcity,Honolulu,and theclosestone,Kahului.The sampling
was done using Google Earth to estimatethe obstaclesseparation
and Google SlrectViewforthe rest.These parameterswere chosen
to be uniform throughout the territorydue to the small variation
observed inthecityof Kahului and thefactthatthiscityisthemain
source of lightpollution,as can be inferredfrom Fig.5.
The fillingfactorof the obstaclesisthe opacityof the obstacles
to light,that is to say the ratioof the lightrays that can pass
through or between the obstacles.A betterapproach would be the
one describedby Kocifaj(2018b),where one takes intoaccount
multiplerows of buildingsinsteadof a singleone in additionto
variousotherimprovements. This may be includedinour model in
the future.The value0.5was estimatedusingGoogle StreetView,
while consideringmainly Kahului forthereasonsmentioned above.
Second-order scatteringwas calculatedwhitin 4 km of the main
opticalpath (MSR inFig.1).
Honolulu
Kai ua-Kona'^0 25 50 75 100 125km
Honolulu
0 50 100 150 200 250 km
i<^)2.2 Estimation of the Hawaii lightinginfrastructure
Many parameters were estimatedfordifferentcircularregionsof the
modelling domain (seeFig.6).When two or more regionsoverlap,
the one with the higher index takesprecedence.Each region was
definedassuming a relativeuniformityof theirlamps and obstacles
characteristics,Table 1 containsthe lamps and obstaclecharac
teristicsfor each region.To estimatethe mean lamp and obstacle
heights,we used the3D model availableon Google Earthas well as
theviews from Google StreetView.We estimatedthelamps upward
lightoutputratio(ULOR) and SPD accordingtoour knowledge of
the islands’lightinginfrastructure.
Figure 5. Viewshed from the HaleakalaObservatory.The shaded regions
correspond to regionsthatarenot visibleinthedirectlineof sightfrom 20 ft
(approx.6.1 m) above the observatory(yellowdot).Determined using data
from heywhalsfhai.com.
2.3 Other input data and modelling parameters
The ground reflectanceisobtained from the Moderate Resolution
Imaging Spectroradiometer(MODIS) MYD09A1 data set(Kauf
man & Tanre 1998) for the period ranging from 2014 May 17 to
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
Modelling thenightskyofHaleakala Obs.,HI 1779
Table 1. Lightinginfrastructureand obstaclecharacteristicsestimated with Google StreetView.Cobrahcads are characterizedwith 5 percent ULOR, athletic
facilitiesto 10percentULOR, and fullshieldingto 0 percent ULOR. ‘Per cent*representthe relativeamount (inper cents)of thelightfrom the regionthat
iscoming from the associatedcharacteristics.The technology used are low-pressuresodium (LPS), high-pressuresodium (HPS), metal hallide(MH), and
compact uorcscent lamps (CFLs).
# Zone Per cent Technology Shielding Lamp height Obstacle height Obstacle distance Obstacle fillingfactor
1. Oahu 7 m 25 m90% MPS Cobrahcad
Athletic facilities
5% ULOR
20% ULOR
10% ULOR
Cobrahead
Athletic facilities
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
20% ULOR
20% ULOR
10% ULOR
Cobrahead
Athletic facilities
10% ULOR
Cobrahead
Athletic facilities
10% ULOR
Cobrahead
Athletic facilities
Fully shielded
10% ULOR
20% ULOR
Cobrahead
10% ULOR
15% ULOR
15% ULOR
Fullyshielded
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
10%. ULOR
5% ULOR
Volcano lava
10% ULOR
15% ULOR
10% ULOR
10% ULOR
20% ULOR
10% ULOR
15% ULOR
15% ULOR
5m 0.5
10% MH
2. MCBH 35% CFL 7 m 5 m 25 m 0.5
65% HPS
3. Kailua 7 m 25 m 0.550% LPS 5 m
40% HPS
10% MH
0.54. Honolulu port
Airport/
Hickam AFB
Industrial area
7 m
7 m
5 m 25 m
25 in
100% HPS
5. 0.55 m70% HPS O
o
30% MH
3
0.56. 7 m 5 m 25 m80% HPS o
u
20% MH a
25 m 0.57. Kahala 50% LPS 7 m 5 m Q.
40% HPS o
310% MH 3"
25 m 0.57 m 5 mWaipahu 50% LPS 7X
T3
(/)
40% HPS
10% MH 0)
825 m 0.59. 7 m 5mMililani 50% LPS Q.
40% HPS 3
10% MH o
o
0.57 m 5 m 25 m10. Waikiki 40% HPS c
●a
HPS40% 8
20% MH 3
0.525 m 3II. 7 m 5 mMolokai
and Lanai
Molokai airport
Lanai airport
Maui
90% HPS 3
10% MH <u
(A
25 m
25 m
25 m
0.57m 5 m
5 m
5 m
12. HPS100%
100%
Q>
3.0.57 m13. HPS o
0.57 m14. 72% HPS
■u
18% HPS
03
10% MH
§25 m 0.57 m 5 m15. Kahului airport
and port
Big Island
95% HPS -j
5% MH O)
0.525 m7 m 5 m16. 87% LPS (£)
CD
HPS CO
CO
5% MH 03
4.-
17. Lava lakes
Hilo
-% - m- m
7 m
- m CT
■<
25 m 0.55 m18. 70% LPS CO
c
HPS30%
cn
0.525 m19. 7 m 5mKona airport 85% HPS o
10% LPS D
5% MH 4S.
25 m 0.57 m 5 m20. 70% LPSKona c
20% HPS lO
o10% MH ro
ro
coming from othersourceslikeoutdoorprivatelighting,buildings
windows, and car headlights.A number of studiesaimed to esti
mate the relativecontributionof the streetlightto the totalartificial
lightatnight.Streetlightscontributionwas estimatedtoliebetween
30 percentand 50 percentofthetotalartificiallightatnight(Lock-
wood, Thompson & Floyd 1990;Hiscocks& Gudmundsson 2010;
Kuechly etal.2012).The absolutevaluesthatwe obtainwith the
model arecertainlyoverestimatedbut we do notknow theactual
percentageof lightcoming exclusivelyfrom streetlightsinHawaii.
This should not be an importantissuewhen we arelookingto ra
tiosbetween scenariosbut itiscertainlya problem forthe absolute
values (e.g.Fig. 10).In the lattercase,one must considertheval
ues as more or lessproportionalto what would be observedwith
May 24, which has a resolutionof 500 m but was resampled to
1km, and ispresentedatFig.7.The digitalelevationmodel used
comes from the ShuttleRadar Topography Mission (SRTM) data
(Farr et al.2007) and is presented in Fig. 8 which has a native
horizontal resolutionof 3 arcscc (about 90 m) but is also being
resampled to 1km. The radiantfluxmap isderivedusingstepspre
sentedinAube & Simoneau (2017) using satelliteimagery atnight
from the visibleinfraredimaging radiometersuiteday/nightband
(VIIRS-DNB) VCMSLCFG dataset(Elvidgeet al.2017) forthe
month of 2014 May resampled to Ikm from the original15 arc
scc presentedin Fig.9. Our estimateof the lightinginfrastructure
consideralllightdetectedwith VIIRS being emittedcitherby sport
fieldsor by streetlightsbut we know thata substantialpartof itis
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
<9
O
0 10 » 40 SO km
(c) Maui, Lanai and Molokai □
o
S3
O
0)
Q.
(D
Q.
O
(a) Main islands 3
ZT
SI
■D
«>
(U
O
0>
o.
3
o
o
c
T3
O
O
3
33
(U
01
a.
o
<D
-nJ
09
g0
o>
(b) Oahu U5
<D
(d) Big Island CO
09
I*.
cr
Figure 6. Approximative zones used forthesimulation.In case of overlap,the zone with thehigherindex takesprecedence. ><
(Q
C
(D
91
Table 2. Atmospheric parameter used,based on datafrom Holben et al.
(2001). Xa isfora referencewavelength of 500 nm while a isderivedfrom
AERONET bands 440, 500, 675, and 870 nm.
1.0
o
3
0.8 c
●<
Po Rh Aerosol typea
NJ
O
101.3 kPa 0.70 70 Maritime0.11 N941
0.6 ^
Pq :ground airpressure,
a :Angstrom exponent.
r„ :aerosolopticaldepth.
Rh :relativehumidity.
41
41
a:
0.4 e
S’
only streetlightsand sportsfieldson. Another caveat isthatwe do
not know anythingabout thespectraland angularcharacteristicsof
otherlightingbut streetlights.
Eventually,the model will be able to make u.seof data from
VIIRS-DNB for the intensityof the lightsources but also use
data from the InternationalSpace Station to evaluatethe SPD
of the sources(Sanchez de Miguel 2015) and the approach de
veloped by Kocifaj (2018b) to find the net emission function.
In that way we will be able to fully take into account all the
0.2
0.0
Figure 7. MODIS MYD09A1 RGB composite imagery for the month of
2014 May. [R = hand / (645 nm), G = band 4 (555 nm) and B = band 3
(469 nm)] Each band fluctuatesbetween 0 and 1.
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
Modelling thenightsky ofHaleakala Obs.,HI 1781
Skyglow●4000 le-7
4.0 ●
●3500
3.5-
3000
3.0-
-2500 "g
2.5-c
o
2000 "iQ
>
2.0-UJ
1500
1.5-
1000
1.0-
500
a
0.5 ● o
0 5
o
0.0 Q)
Figure 8. SRTM data. Cl400 450 500 550 600 650 700 0
Q.
Wavelength (nm)
Skyglow ole-7
34.0
(a) Raw skyglow rr
SI
T33.5 «
Skyglow for scotopic spectrum 0)
le-9— 3.0 o
E 0
Q.e
Current: 1.94
- ULORO ; 1.00
—- LED 4000K : 2.21
LED 3000K : 1.80
-- LED PC amber: 0.58
o
r 2.5 31.0-E
o
o
g2.0 c
■a
p o
c 1-5 0.8- o
3
31.0
D
00.6- 0o.s
0
4.
o0.0
0400 450 500 550 600 650 700
0.4- 4vWavelength [nm]
CO
ro
(a) Raw skyglow
0.2- -vj
07
Skyglow for scotopic spectrum 4^le-9 «5
toCurrent: 1.94
ULORO : 1.00
LED 4000K : 2.21
LED 3000K : 1.80
-- LED PC amber: 0.58
CO0.0 T CD1.0 600 650 700500 550400 450 07
Wavelength (nm) cr
●<
■g 0.8 CO
c
(b) Scotopic skyglow 0
CO
E o
!? 0.6 0
Figure 10. Sky radiancespectra(a)fordifferentlightingscenariosand its
skyglow impacton thescotopicvision(b).The numbersgiveninthelegend
of each panelarcequaltotheratiooftheintegralof theassociatedcurveto
the integralof ‘ULORO’. Panel 10a isthe raw spectrawithoutany weighting
and isthemost usefulone forprofessionalastronomy.
3
2-
c 0.4 C
●<
ro
o
ro
0.2 ro
and 1999 for the site of Lanai, HI. The AOD is for a reference
wavelengthXo = 500nm whilea isderivedfrom AERONET bands
440, 500, 675, and 870 nm using a linearregression.The AOD
values for other wavelengths are extrapolatedfrom thesesvalues
and Mie’s power law,where
0.0 *
400 450 500 550 600 650 700
Wavelength [nm]
(b) Scotopic skyglow
—cr
Figure 9. VIIRS-DNB data (logseale). A
(1)A●Cx 00
lightsourcespresentin the domain and not restrictounselvesto
streetlights.
The AOD or and Angstrom exponent a shown in Table 2
come from Holbcn el al.(2001), whose climatology is based on
the averageof the Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) (Holben
et ai.1998)datafor38 cletu"days in May between theyears 1995
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The model was run for ninety5 nm-wide spectralbands equally
spaced between 380 and 830 nm. The model outputfordifferent
lightingscenarios,namely ‘Current’,representingthemost accurate
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
M. Aube et al.1782
have designed a filtersystem thatavoidsthisline(with theg filter
encompassing theblue-greencoloursshortof thiswavelength,and
the r filterencompassing the yellow-red visiblelightto thered).To
the red from 555 nm, are naturalsodium and oxygen atmospheric
emission lines.The nightsky isnaturallybrighterin theyellow-
red wavelengthsthan intheblue-greenwavelengths.Conversion to
white LED lightinginevitablymoves artificiallightintothe blue-
green partof the spectrum.Use of Amber LEDs greatlyminimizes
damage to the naturallydark blue-greenregionof the spectrum.
FilteredLEDs, where a filterremoves blueLED lightemission(such
as those in use on the Islandof Hawaii), are another alternativeto
white LEDs thatlessendamage to the blue-greenpartof thenight
sky spectrum.
estimateofthecurrentsituationon thearchipelago,‘ULORO’ being
the same spectralmix as thecurrentscenariobut withevery lamp
head replacedby a fullcut-off(OpercentULOR). Thisallowsus to
isolatetheeffectof theuplighton the sky radiancespectrum.Then
‘LED 4000 K’, ‘LED 3000 K’, and ‘LED PC amber’ arc estimated
with a fullconversiontotheserespectivetechnologieswith fullcut
offheads while keeping theinstalledlamp’sluminous fluxconstant.
The referencespectraareshown inFigs 2 and 3,whilethe LOPs
are shown inFig.4.
The model alsooutputsa map of the contributionof the lights
sourcestothesky radiance,which can be integratedoverthezones
describedin Figure 6. We obtaina scotopicweighted contribu
tionof 2.1percent forOhau, 1.1percentforMolokai and Lanai,
96.3percentforMaui and 0.3percentforBig Island.This shows
thatKahului,the main cityof theislandof Maui, isthemain source
of the lightseen at theobservatoryand thatHonolulu can be ne
glectedwhen consideringthe impact of conversionplans.
Fig.10 shows thespectralradiancedataobtainedforthe differ
ent simulatedscenarios.Italsoshows thespectrawhen weighted by
the nighttimevision(scotopic)sensitivitycurve (Wyszccki & Stiles
1982). Please note thatany conclusion drawn from Fig. 10 isonly
validfor thisparticularsite,where the most contributingsource,
Kahului. has obstaclesthatare lower than the lightsources and is
in directlineof sightof the observatory.Note alsothatobstacles
characteristics where chosen to be uniform over the whole territory
because other importantlightsources iu-erelativelyfaraway and
have a negligiblecontribution.A more precisedescriptionshould
include a more detaileddefinitionof the subgrid obstacles.Other
configurations,especiallywhen obstaclesare higherthan lightfix
turesfornearby sources,may leadtovery differentresultsand thus
new modelling procedures should be implemented.
By looking at Fig. 10(a),which isthe most interestingone for
professionalastronomy sinceitisnot weighted by the scotopicsen
sitivity,the impact of reduced uplightisobvious.This isespecially
clearforthe currentand currentw/o uplighteurves,where we can
see thatremoving the uplightwhile keeping the same luminous
fluxreduces the sky radianceby an average factorof ®s2.On that
figure,thenumbers indicatedin thelegendsrepresentthe spectral
integrationreportedtothevalueof thecurrentmix of lamps spectra
but withoutuplightwhile keeping the same flux(ULORO.) Both
3000 and 4000 K LEDs produce an averaged radiancegreaterthan
ULORO indicatingthatboth 4000 and 3000 K LEDs produce a
higher levelof sky radiancewhen not consideringthe change in
uplightand keeping thesame luminous flux.
The seotopicbrightnesshowever,presentedinFig.10(b),shows
clearlythe impact of the colour temperatureof the LED on the
perceivedradianceas seen by the dark adapted human eye. Both
4000 and 3000 K LEDs have an averagescotopicweighted im
pact relativelyclose to the currentsituation(insideMpercent of
deviation).Meaning thatthe brightnessreductionprovidedby the
absence of upward lightemission forthe LEDs iscompensated by
scotopicbrightnessassociatedto theblue contentof LEDs. On the
otherhand, the scotopicbrightnessgeneratedby PC amber LEDs,
is about one thirdof the scotopicbrightnessof the current situa
tion.This isdue to theirlow blue lightcontentand theirabsence
of upward lightemission.4000 and 3000 K LEDs have an average
scotopicweighted impact about twice the ULORO scenario.
The nightsky inthe400-550 nm regionof thespectrum(blue-
green)isnaturallyextremelydark when the moon isdown, or only
a thincrescentisilluminated.This isa preciousregion of the sky
forastronomy,and isalmostuntouchedby sodium lightsources.At
555 nm, thereisa brightyellow-greenoxygen line,and astronomers
D
o
4 CONCLUSIONS
o
The resultsof thisstudy show thatsky radiance for the siteof
Halaekala observatory in the particularobservation directionof
20° of elevationand with an azimuthal angle of 292° (towards
Honolulu) ishighlysensitiveto uplight,largelydue to the direct
lineof sightbetween the observatoryand some nearby cities.For
the raw/astronomicalimpact as well as forthe scotopicweighted
skyglow, removing the uplightreduces the impact by a factorof
approximatelytwo.The countylightingordinancealreadyrequires
thatalllightsare fullyshielded,but thereremain many casesof
unshieldedlights.Sports lightingisexempted from thisshielding
requirementsand isparticularlydamaging.
Because of the effectof the uplight,the currentscenario(HPS
and MH mix with uplight)produces an impact similarto 4000 and
3000 K LEDs, when lookingattheaveragedscotopicimpact.Itcan
alsobe seen thatthecolourtemperatureforLED lightinghas a huge
influenceon the observed sky radiance,with 4000 K LEDs produc
ing a scotopicbrightnessnearlyfour times greaterthan thatfor
PC amber LEDs. Even 3000 K LEDs produce a scotopicbrightness
thatisthreetimes greaterthan the PC amber when the conversion
ismade atconstant(installed)luminous flux.Any scenarioof LED
installationwithout complete eliminationof unshieldedlightswill
resultindegradationof thesky brightness.
Although skyglow seems tobe very sensitiveto uplight,itisim
portanttoremember thatthisisdue totheparticulargeography and
cityscapeoftheregion(noblockingby terraintowardsnearby cities
and obstacleslower than lamps).But when thereisno upward light
emission,both 4000 and 3000 K LEDs produce skyglow greater
than the ULORO scenario,which ismainly high-pressuresodium
and a few metalhalidelamps.The PC amber LEDs, however,pro
duce significativelylessskyglow thaneveryothertechnologytested.
For thatreason,PC amber LEDs shouldalways be preferredover
3000 and 4000 K LEDs when consideringlightconversionplans
which aim torestrictthesky brightness.
However, one needs to take into account that when such a con
version to LEDs occurs, the luminous flux is often reduced by
30-50 percent because of the betterconcentrationof the lighton
the streetsurfacethatcan generallybe achievedwithLEDs (Kinzey
etal.2017).In such casestheimpacts shown intheprevious figures
need to be multipliedby a factor0.5-0.7.But sincethisreduction
is only caused by belteropticsand not by a betterluminous effi
ciencyof LEDs, itwould,inprinciple,be possibleto develop HPS
lamps withgood opticsthatwould producethesame fluxreduction
becauseofa betterconcentrationof thelight.Thisisdue tothefact
thatlightingprofessionalsgenerallywant to keep the same illumi
nance levelon the ground while reducing the totalluminous flux.
Itis,however, truethatthe design of such opticsis fareasierwith
Q)
Cl.
CD
Q.
O
3
T3
Q)
O
CU
Q.
O
3
o
o
c
■D
O
o
3
3
13
tu
CO
0)
3.
o
CD
4^
03
ro
->1
-4
03
4^
CD
CD
03
05
03
4^
CT
■<
CD
C
CD
CO
o
3
c
VC
N3
O
ro
tS3
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
Modelling the nightsky ofHaleakala Obs.,HI 1783
LEDs due totheirrelativesize,LED can alsobe operatedefficiently
atlow power. But thesebenelilsaretrueforallLEDs, includingPC
amber LEDs. Therefore,thisisnotan argumenttofavour4000 and
3000 K LEDs lights.
Lower CCT LEDs, such as 2700 K, are now becoming more
common. These were notdiscussedindetailinthispaper,but their
impacton astronomycan be inferredby interpolationbetween the
cases on 3000 K and PC amber. In cases where white lightisneces
sary,2700 K (orlowerCCT) shouldalways be chosen over higher
CCT LEDs. Incaseswhere whitelightisnotnecessary,PC amber
LEDs should be used; LEDs that are lilteredto remove blue light
may alsobe considered.
Dobler G. et al.,2015, Inf.Syst.,54, 115
Elvidge C. D., Baugh K., Zhizhin M., Hsu F, C,, Ghosh T., 2017, Ini.J.
Remote Sens., 38, 5860
Falchi F.,2011. MNRAS, 412, 33
Falchi F. et al.,2016, Sci. Adv., 2
FarrT. G. eta!.,2007, Rev,Geophys.,45
Garstang R„ 1986,PASP, 98,364
Hiscocks P. D-, Gudmundsson S.,2010, J. R. Astron. Soc. Can., 104, 190
Holben B. N. et al..1998, Remote Sens. Environ., 66, 1
Holbcn B. et al..2001, J.Geophys. Re.s,:Atmos., 106, 12067
Kaufman Y. J.,Tanre D., 1998,NASA MODIS Algorithm TheoreticalBasis
Document, Vol. 85, Goddard Space FlightCenter,p.3
Kinzey B..PerrinT. E.,MillerN. J.,KocifajM., Aube M., Lamphar H. S.,
CarlsonT.,2017, US Depatment of Energy,US
Kocifaj M.. 2007, Appl. Opt.,46, 3013
KocifajM., 2018a,J.Quant. Spectro.se.Radiat.Transfer,206, 260
KocifajM., 2018b, J.Quant. Spectrosc.Radiat.Transfer,205,253
Kuechly H. U.,Kyba C. C.,Ruhtz T.,Lindcmann C..Wolter C.,FischerJ.,
Holker F, 2012, Remote Sens. Environ., 126, 39
Kyba C. C. etal..2015, Sci.Rep.,5
Lockwood G.,Thompson D.,Floyd R., 1990,PASP. 102,481
Luginbuhl C. B.,DuriscoeD. M.. Moore C. W., Richman A., Lockwood G.
W., Davis D. R.. 2009, PASP. 121, 204
Meier J.M., 2018, Int.J.SustainableLight.,19,142
Patat F, 2008, A&A. 481, 575
Pedani M., 2004, New A.stron.,9, 641
Pun C. S. J., So C. W., 2012, Environ. Monit. As,sess., 184,
2537
Pun C. S.J.,So C. W., Leung W. Y..Wong C. F, 2014,J.Quant. Spectro.se.
Radiat.Transfer, 139, 90
PuschnigJ.,Posch T.,UttenthalerS.,2014, J.Quant.Spectrosc.Radiat.
Transfer,139, 64
Ribas S. J.,Torra J.,ParicioS.,Canal-Domingo R.,2016, Int.J.Sustainable
Light.,18,32
Sanchez de Miguel A.,2015,PhD thesis,Univ.Complutcnsede Madrid
Sanchez de Miguel A.,Aube M., Zamorano J.,KocifajM., Roby J.,Tapia
C.. 2017, MNRAS, 467, 2966
Tschamtke T.,Hochberg M. E.,Rand T. A., Resh V. H., KraussJ.,2007,
PLoS Biol.,5,el8
Wyszecki G., StilesW. S., 1982, Colour Science Vol. 8. Wiley,
New York
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS □
o
Wc appliedthe scquence-dctermincs-crcditapproach (Tschamtke
et al.2007) forthesequenceof authors.Some computationswere
carriedout on the Mammouth SerialIIclustermanaged by Cal-
cul Quebec and Compute Canada. The operationof thesesuper
computers is funded by the Canada Foundation for Innovation
(CFI),NanoQuebec, Rescau de Medecine Genctique Appliquec,
and the Fonds dc recherche du Quebec - Nature et technologies
(FRQNT). MA thanks the FQRNT for financialsupportthrough
the Researchprogram forcollegeresearchers.AS thanksthe Cen
tredc Recherche d’Astrophysiquedu Quebec (CRAQ) and FRQNT
for financialsupport. LN thanks the Natural Sciences and Engi
neering Research Council (Canada) for financialsupportthrough
the Di.scoveryGrants program.
3
O
0>
Q.
<D
O.
O
3
3"
3
T3
VI
0)
O
0)
Q.
<D
3
n
o
c
■D
8
3
33
lU
REFERENCES «
u
3.
Aube M., ProceedingsofStarlight2007 conference.La Palma,Spain,2007
Aube M.. 2015, Phil.Trans. R. Soc. B, 370
Aube M., Simoneau A.,2018,J.Quant.Spectrosc.Radiat.Transfer,211,25
Aube M., Franchomme-Fosse L., Robert-Slaehler R. Houle V., 2005,
Proc.SPIE, San Diego, California,US. 5890, p. 589012
Aube M., Fortin N., Turcotte S.. Garcia B.. Mancilla A., Maya J.,2014,
PASP, 126, 1068
Aube M., Simoneau A. 2017, lllumina Users Guide, available at; http:
//cegepsherbrooke.qc.ca/‘'aubemayindex.php/Prof/llluminaGuide2016
BaddileyC.,2007, Starlight:A Common Heritage,La Palma, Spain
Cinzano R. Falchi F, 2012, MNRAS, 427, 3337
o
(0
-J
00
ro
-sj
-u
O)
CD
CD
CO
CO
05
O’
'<
This paperhasbeen typesetfrom a T^/DT^ filepreparedby theauthor. (Q
c
CD
VI
O
3
4:^
c
ro
o
ro
MNRAS 478, 1776-1783 (2018)
Count^CletJ<
From:
Sent:
Andrea Walls <andrea.walls@me.com>
Monday, July18,2022 10:44AM
County Clerk
Insupport of Water Authority
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from andrea.walls(5)me.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Iam testifyingto offermy resounding SUPPORT forthe charteramendment to create a Water Authorityforthe
County of Maui. No more researchisrequiredto givethe citizensof Maui an opportunity to vote on the creationof
the Water Authority.Once itisinplace,likeany livinginstitutionthere willbe opportunity to improve upon its
structureand function,ifnecessary.
But we have no time to waste. Itneeds to be established sooner than later.
For too long the precious waters that sustainlifefor Maui County have been controlledby corporationswhose
bottom lineisprofit.Our watersheds, nativefloraand fauna and nativeculturalpracticeshave nearlybeen snuffed
out due to the selfish,extractivepractices.
We are currentlyat the precipiceof long-term leasesgoing intothe hands of foreigncorporationswho would then
controlour water supply. (Whose managing partnersby the way, have a checkered historyof water controland
abuse inCalifornia.)We cannot letour water resourcesbe inthose hands.
But even ifwe were not presentlyunder eminent threatby such leasesto such entities,itwould simply be good
management to have such an Authority in place.
This isnot a new concept. Many placesinthe United States and around the world already have Water Authoritiesin
place helpingto protectthe watershed and manage the many competing demands on the resource.
Itislong over due that Maui County controlit'sown PublicTrustwater resourcesforpresentand futuregenerations.
Sincerely,
Andrea Walls
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk R£ChIV6
From:
Sent:
Evan Webb <evanwebb.net@gmail.conn>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:17 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61; workforce housing at Hale Waip0lpTpjQgQp JHG
COUNTY CLERK
20Z2JUL H PH 4^25
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom evanwebb.net@gmaii.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordable housing at Hale Waipuilani! Please
vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Iabsolutelysupport housing for residentworkers. Like so many residents Ilivewith anxiety that Iwillbe forced to leave
offislandbecause Icannot findaffordablelongterm housing
Mahalo,
Evan
1
County Clerk
Rakai'elWebb <rakaiel@rakaiel.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 9:07 AM
County Clerk
I SUPPORT Resolution 22-119 and the establishment of the Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom rakaiel@rakaiel.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha friends.
I SUPPORT Resolution 22-119 and the establishment of the Community Water Authority.
Itisimportant that the abilityto controlour own waters be returned to the people who actuallylivehere - not managed
by a foreignentity- PublicSector Pension Investment Board (PSP).
Mahi Pono isdiverting20M gallonsper day from EastMaui streams fortheirdiversifiedAg projects.They were diverting
25M gallonsper day, but they could only show thatthey were actuallyusing 5M GPD.
This iswhy itisimportant that we establisha Community Water Authority so that the water can be managed by our
Kama 'AinaCommunity and not Mahi Pono (PSP).
We don't have a water shortage issue,the issueisthat the water we do have isbeing extremely mismanaged - and by a
foreign investment firm at that.
Alexander & Baldwin and EastMaui irrigation(co-owned by Mahi Pono) which isowned and controlledby one of
Canada's largestinvestment firms- PublicSector Pension Investment Board (PSP).
I SUPPORT Resolution 22-119 and the establishment of the Community Water Authority.
The abilityto controlour own waters isessentialfor our health & well-beingas a community on thisisland!
Thank you so much forlisteningto the voicesof the people. oo
O-n
zo
7)
ma
Mahalo, o
-im m-<Rakai'el Webb O <o ■n
mmH
xm
a
o
1
RECEIVED
Bill111 fH 4-!!!9Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Jane west <jlynggaardwest@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:26PM occir'P HP TWF
CountyClerk COUNTY CLERKWe support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfromjlynggaardwest@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,<BR><BR>IVlaui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale
Waipuilani!<BR>Please vote in favor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing forlocalfamiliesand not market housing for
offshorebuyers.<BRxBR>Mahalo!
'Jane
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Claudia <claudiawethal!@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 8:32 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61; workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom claudiawethall(S)yahoo.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Please vote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housing for localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshore buyers. I
am a teacher who islivingmonth to month in my rental.Ifanything were to happen to my home, Iwould be forced to
move to the mainland. Please bring more affordablehousing to Maui!!
Mahalo!
Claudia Wethall
&QC
O "n
C
50-im
7)
m
o
mV/l-<
OO <-n
mm-H
:33X Qo
lO
1
Count^Gerk RCGulVSD
2W2Ja 14 PH 4--25
From:
Sent:
Sam Wilhelm <samjwilhelm2@gmail.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:19 PM
County ClerkTo:
Subject: We support Resolution22-61;workforce housing at Hale WaifjuijaWjQ^Qp
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom samjwilhelm2@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification]
Aloha Councilmember,
Maui needs homes forlocalfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!
Pleasevote infavorof Resolution22-61.Support housingfor localfamiliesand not market housing foroffshorebuyers.
Mahalo!
Sam Wilhelm
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
mi JUL 14 AH 8:08Anita Wintner <anitabanana@hawaiiantel.net>
Thursday,July14,2022 7:27 AM
County Clerk
Bill21
From:
Sent:
To:
office of the
COUNTY CLERSubject:
[You don'toften get email from anitabanana@hawaiiantel.net.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
1stronglysupport Bill21 to change lightingordinance to protectseabirdsand nestingturtles.Mahalo, Anita Wintner.
Kihei
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Woodbury <woodbury@hawaii.rr.com>
Monday, July18,2022 12:20 PM
County Clerk
Insupport of the CharterAmendment to createa water Authority
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from woodbury@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Thisisthe most important resourcewe need to live,along with the land itself!There should most definitelybe
Water Authority.We need to do thisnow, and not wait untilit'sout of our controlcompletely. It'salmost too late
already.Pleaseget thisup fora vote. Water isthe lifeforce. Look at the problems we have with outside money and
power buying up allthe property. Think what willhappen ifoutside powers controlthe water! Pleasemove
towards this.Put iton the ballot.Give the people the opportunity to vote on being in controlof our water.
Sincerely,
Martha Woodbury
1
Count^£lerk
Michael Zemrus <michaelzemrus@yahoo.com>
Thursday,July14,2022 4:53 PM
County Clerk
We support Resolution22-61:workforce housing at Hale Waipuilani
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom michaelzemrus@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Councilmember, Maui needs homes for localfamilies.We support affordablehousing at Hale Waipuilani!Pleasevote in
favor of Resolution 22-61. Support housing forlocalfamiliesand
not market housing foroffshorebuyers.Mahalol
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
oo
0~n
C“^
73
m
om rn-<
oo <
mm -1
a
OD
1