MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-03-18
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1199,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MlNyiES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
March 18, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:00 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
March 18, 2022, please come to order.
Good morning, Members.
Roll call, Mr. Clerk.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER: Chair, proceeding with roll call.
Members should state who, if anyone, is present with them as part of roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina. Aloha na Poalima to
our Chair and fellow Councilmembers. For the record, we are at the Hana Cultural
Center with my EA Dawn Lono.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Mr. Sinenci. The greeting this morning is dzien dobry, dzien
dobry from Poland.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Hi. Dzien dobry. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and dzien dobry, Madam Chair, and my colleagues, and
everyone else joining us for our Council meeting today. For the record, I'm transmitting
from my home in Makawao, and my wife Is In the next room. Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Dzien dobry, aloha kakahiaka, and Happy Women's History
Month to everybody. I just, I just got this in the mail, so I \wanted to see if, to share this
with everybody. Women belong in all places where decisions are being made.
CHAIR LEE: Of course. Of course.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; So that's to our, our majority women Council and, and the men
who support us. And ! am actually at my district office today and knocking on wood
that everything works. And a day late with my green background, but happy to be here.
And I, I have two staff members out in the lobby not in the room with me, Ellen McKinley
and Daniel Kanahele.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning, Councilmembers.
Dzien du, dzien dobry to all of you. I am alone in my space on Lanai. Happy for,
looking forward to a great meeting. And Friday's here, the weekend is almost here, so
ready to go.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Dzien dobry. Pryvit. Aloha kakahiaka kakou. Broadcasting
live and direct from the Old Lahaina Center, Room 205 with my EA Angela Lucero and
Christian Balagso. And we're all more than six feet apart from each other. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I'm right here.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you are?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 3
COUNCILMEMBER SUGiMURA: Yeah. Sorry, I just walked into the office. I'm on the eighth
floor at the County Building. I hope there's more than just me on this floor. I don't know
yet. But good morning, everybody. International greeting, thank you, Alice Lee. I didn't
hear what it is. It's a beautiful day in Wailuku.
CHAIR LEE: Dzien, dzien dobry. Dzien dobry.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Dzien dobry. Dzien dobry. And Miki Yokouchi is in the
other side of this office, you all know is more than six feet away. Good morning,
everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Office Pro Tempore Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair. And dzien, dzien dobry to my fellow
colleagues. I am here in my workspace, and I am alone. And good morning to
everyone out there in Akaku land.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair, my Molokai nui a Hina. I'm
at the Molokai District Office, and with me on the other side of the office is our Molokai
community outreach specialist Zhantell Lindo. Dzien dobry kakou and hauoii Poalima.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Dzien dobry, my colleagues and everyone watching and listening. I am here in
my workspace alone.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, NATALIE A. KAMA, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 4
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are nine Members present. A quorum is present to
conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Deputy County Clerk James Krueger. Also present from the Office
of the County Clerk are County Clerk Kathy Kaohu; and Legislative Division staff Joyce
Murashige and Lauren Saldana.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, our opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember Molina.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Mike Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Molina. That was so beautiful and so relevant. Thank you.
And now, Members, please join me with the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Members, I'd like to ask everyone to please, well, before we proceed with today's
agenda, may I please request that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it’s
your turn to speak. Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: At this time, we will set the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the calendar can
be still adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested changes to the Consent
Calendar at this time? No changes? Okay.
Any objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 5
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. So, ordered. No, so ordered. The Consent Calendar is
set.
Mr. Clerk, please proceed with testimony. There are no resolutions today.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda
items. Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council’s online meeting
by phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify, individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. Individuals may testify for three
minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying. Please
also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media
Channel 53, or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected
from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first individual we have signed up to testify is Justin Hughey. To be followed
by Liko Wallace.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Mr. Hughey.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. JUSTIN HUGHEY (testifying on Resolution No. 22-84):
Good morning. My name is Justin Hughey. I'm speaking in strong support of
Resolution 22-84. I'm a public school teacher who was lucky enough to purchase the
first Na Hale 0 Maui affordable home. Dream come true. Making one the lowest
salaries, teacher's salaries in the country when factoring in the cost of living, I found
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 6
myself working nights at Sansei Seafood Restaurant to be able to afford rent and live
paycheck to paycheck. 37 Poniu Circle sold for about 650,000 brand new, roughly
30 years ago, went into foreclosure, and Na Hale  OMaui purchased, purchased it. I
bought it for 275,000. Most developers who promise to provide affordable housing to
develop luxury homes don't truly provide affordable homes. My mortgage is $1300. I
pay less for a 3-bedroom, 3-bath, two-story house than what I was paying for a one-
bedroom apartment.
Hawaii doesn't have a teacher-recruitment problem. It has a. it has a retention problem.
This is because their school district is the only one in the country that doesn't use
property taxes to fund public education. In the book "Hawaii Pono", the public school
system has been suffering from dilapidated buildings, too few teachers, meager
funding since 1911.
Because of Na Hale O Maui, 1 was able to afford to stay here and continue teaching. 1
met my wife, and after purchasing a home, and now she teaches at Maui High, and we
have two children. Please pass this resolution and in the future, provide Na Hale O
Maui with as much money or land as possible. Developers, I mean, developments like
Spencer Homes are great, but those were only affordable for the individuals who
bought them. Na Hale O Maui is affordable in perpetuity. Thus, if 1 sell my home, it
will be affordable to the next family in need. And the need on Maui for affordable
housing is overwhelming. Our communities need so much more. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hughey. Any questions, Members?
Yes, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. And aloha, Mr. Hughey. Mahalo for your
testimony this morning. I, I understand that Hana school, we do have a couple cottages
here for teachers that, that require housing. ! was just wondering, is there anything like
that available for teachers in Central Maui?
MR. HUGHEY: Not to my knowledge. And if it is, it's too far, too few.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay.
MR. HUGHEY: Yeah, it's ... 1 mean, these homes that are on, that are there, they . . . help
all this teachers, or at the school I teach at. You know, it's, so, I mean, it, this is better
than nothing. But we need to do so much more. So, so much more.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thanks Justin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 7
MR. HUGHEY: Yeah, any time.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, I see Member Kama, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Justin. It's been a while. So
good to see you.
MR. HUGHEY: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, my question is, you know, you were one of the first. What
year was that that you first bought your home?
MR. HUGHEY: I believe it was 2010. Yeah, I think it was 2010.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Hughey. Thank you for your
testimony. 1 think it's great when people who have affordable housing support the
affordability in perpetuity, cause a lot of people, once they get into affordable housing,
they want that equity. But 1 wanted to ask you, what, since this is the, since the
resolution you're testifying on has to do with dispensation of outstanding real property
taxes, does, did you have outstanding real property taxes on that home?
MR. HUGHEY: No. I'm, outstanding, I mean, if there was, it would've, maybe it was, maybe
there was but the, the association payment, but nothing came my way.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so this doesn't necessarily directly affect you, but you're
just testifying in general?
MR. HUGHEY: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. ! appreciate that, really. And, and I love your t-shirt.
MR. HUGHEY: Yeah, well, I mean, this is, again, this was a dream come true. This was a
miracle, you know, for any teacher that, that tries to work here, you know, on a, just the
worst salary in the country. You know, I broke my back working two, two jobs for
10 years and, you know, I always thought of myself, what am I doing here, cause-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 8
MR. HUGHEY; --public education is not valued. But this allowed me to stay here. And this
allowed me, even though I couldn't, my wife and I could make $77,000 more in like
Washington State, this still allowed us to stay and teach. And my wife is . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, it's not necessarily the worst salary in the country, but
comparatively to our cost of living.
MR. HUGHEY: Compared to, any district, with the cost of living, it's the worst.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
MR. HUGHEY: And it's because our State Constitution never factored in property taxes to
pay for public education, so it's always been a problem. And that's-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's another conversation. But I would love to talk to you about
that sometime, because, you know, that's-
MR. HUGHEY: Well, that's a big problem. And the kids deserve better. And teachers deserve
housing, just like everyone else.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Hughey. Any more questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Nice seeing you, Justin. Great story, I love it.
Now, tell us, the other part is if you decide to leave, you and your wife and your two
children, what would happen to your house? That's the questions.
MR. HUGHEY: So, the, the, the person that bought  ahouse right after me and then sold it,
you do have shared equity. You do get, you do get equity the longer you stay in the
house. So, the person that sold the house right after mine, I think made $7,000 more.
But the whole, the whole point is that you're not going to just flip it and make a ton of
money, you know. I own, I own the house, Na Hale  OMaui owns the land. It's a
99-year lease with an option for another 99 years. I can give, I can give the house to
my kids. But, you know, it's, and you know, when there was, when I was first pre
approved buyer, there was about 15 people on the list. It got to a different family. They
didn't want to put a single guy in there. But I ended up being the only person that saw
the value and could qualify. So, I would sell it to another family, and I would probably
make probably 7 or $10,000 more than what I paid for it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 9
But, you know, all that money's going somewhere. When, when you're paying 1400 or
$2000 for a one bedroom, and it's just gone, and that's half your salary as a public
school teacher. It doesn't make any sense to, to stay here and teach here when, when
you can have a home and you can, you can have a bank account and not have to work
a second job. And there's so many people suffering. It's ridiculous.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you so much.
MR. HUGHEY: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Hughey.
MR. HUGHEY: Aloha. Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Liko Wallace.
To be followed by Fay Pacheco.
MS. LIKO WALLACE (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
Good morning, Councilmembers. Nice to see all your smiling faces this morning. I’m
excited to talk story with you guys on behalf of the things that is being proposed for the
Charter amendments. I would like to speak on item CR 22-26, Proposal 1, from the
Charter amendment district voting.
1 do not agree that it should be put on the ballot. The reasons that I feel, as I had sent
the first time, said the first time i spoke was basically, 1 feel that our voices will not be
heard. We will not be represented in a, in a way that we need to be. That we live in a
unique style here, very different from almost everywhere you can think of on Maui. And
I know there's a lot of people, you know, in sharing the information with others, I know
they all share the same sentiment as me. But a lot of them are too shy or shame to,
or just feel uncomfortable coming on and speaking to you guys. So, I know I speak for
more than myself. And I just want to encourage you guys to stick with not putting
Proposal 1 on the ballot.
1 also wanted to encourage to create the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources, Proposal 8.
to be put on the ballot. 1 feel it would give our County a better perspective and
understanding of what we stand for, what our values are, our priorities. And it would
help you guys to help protect both our environment and our culture, as, as we have in
the past. Just giving you guys better resources to understand what is on, at-hand.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 10
And then lastly, I also wanted to speak on behalf of Proposal 6, which would include
Kalaupapa as part of our County, removing it from the Department of Health and
allowing them to be a part of us, instead of separate as they have been treated all
along.
Thank you so much. I've been praying for you guys that you will really take to heart
what our island is speaking on behalf of. And pray that you will take into consideration
what we have to say. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for joining us this morning. Members, are there any questions? If
not, thank you. And thank you for praying for us, cause we need it.
MS. WALLACE; Definitely, I know. We are required to pray for our leaders. Thank you again
and have a blessed day.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. You too.
MS. WALLACE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Fay Pacheco. To be
followed by U'ilani Tanigawa Lum. Fay Pacheco, it is your turn to testify.
CHAIR LEE: We can't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Somebody gotta unmute her.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. FAY PACHECO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, now we can.
MS. PACHECO: Okay, great, great. Okay, my name is Fay Pacheco and I live on Molokai.
I'm here to testify on CR 22-26. This is on behalf of not allowing the proposal to be on
the ballot. Also, I would like to propose, Proposal 8, I would like to, 1 would like to.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 11
Yes, yes, Proposal 1, I would like to approve that. I mean, I would like to have you
allow that to happen. What's that? Okay. Sorry, I'm just going all over the place. Sorry
about that. I haven’t testified for a long time, because I get so nervous on it. But I just
needed to let you know about Proposal 8, that I would like to have the Department on
the ‘Oiwi Resources. See, I'm going all over the place. Sorry again, to allow that to
happen. And the reason for that is that I think that we need to protect our environment
and our culture.
The, the re, okay.
MS. WALLACE; You don't want that.
MS. PACHECO: Okay, let me go back again. Item CR 22-26, sorry about that. I don't want
that to be on the ballot, okay. And the reason for that is that I feel that Molokai's voices
would be watered down by that. So, don't allow that. And I think that's it. Sorry about
that. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: No, we're just happy that you were able to speak to us today. Thank you for
joining us. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Pacheco, for your testimony
today. I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying.
MS. PACHECO: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; You like the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources, and you want it
on the ballot?
MS. PACHECO: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You don't want the district voting and you don't want that on
the ballot?
MS. PACHECO; Correct. Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, right on. Thank you.
MS. PACHECO: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 12
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? If not, thank you so much, Ms. Pacheco
Oh, one more question. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Thank you for your, your testimony. Fay and, and
Liko. But 1 just wanted to find if people understand that what we're voting on with 22-26
is the whole package, not individual.
MS. PACHECO: Oh, okay, okay, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, it's either all of its yes or all of it's no, whatever's on that, in
the pack of Charter amendments. That's just for you, your information and those who
are coming after you.
MS. PACHECO: Okay, great. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Pacheco. So,
I am just, what you told your response to Member Paltin, that you like No. 1, you don't
like No. 1. You like No. 8. But in the end, as Member King has said, that it's all-or-
nothing, and in the package, the Council did agree to delete No. 1 and we are
supporting No. 8. So, that satisfies you?
MS. PACHECO: That's great. Thank you. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
MS. PACHECO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Kama. Any more questions? If not, thank you so much.
And we'll see, have a nice weekend. Bye.
MS. PACHECO: Thank you. Bless you guys.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: God bless you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 13
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is U'ilani Tanigawa Lum.
To be followed by Cindy Manaois.
MS. U'lLANI TANIGAWA LUM (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
Aloha mai kakou. So nice to see you. My name is U'ilani Tanigawa Lum, and I am a
kupa of this wonderful community. I am also an attorney and a mom. Mahalo for the
opportunity to testify today. And I'm here in my personal capacity as a member of this
community, and I'm testifying in strong support of agenda item 22-26, and in particular
the 8th proposal that would establish the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources.
And hui kala mai, I realize you are all voting on the entire agenda item, as a package.
But I'd like to highlight a bit here on the 8th proposal, if that's okay with you folks? So,
as a hula practitioner, I reflect, I reflected on my educational journey, and sort of traced
it back to my time here on Maui. And in getting my Bachelors and Masters Degree in
Hawaiian Studies, I realized that what fueled my passion for justice was a simple
question. And that was, why was, or maybe why is it so hard to practice our culture in
our homeland? And as many of you agree, foundational cultural practices like hula are
often marketed as a tool for entertainment. But I found that in fact our practitioners
offer us an incredible resource. They're the experts of aina, experts in resource
management, and so much more.
At bottom, to me at least, these practices are an integral part of who we are as kanaka
maoli, and therefore, as Maui nui. And for me, it's foundational to what I do in my
career. This Department of ‘Oiwi Resources will not only take much needed steps to
remove barriers to practicing our culture, but it would also take proactive bold
leadership to support the experts of this place. And as an attorney, I have the privilege
of working at the Ka Huli Ao Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law, where a
part of my kuleana includes coordinating trainings, including trainings for our
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands beneficiaries, as well as trainings for, in Native
Hawaiian Law, as many of you are familiar with.
And one of the most consistent pieces of feedback that we get from folks is how much
there is to learn in Native Hawaiian Law and that there is a critical need to educate
more and have more advanced courses. To be honest, our small team is consistently
fielding requests for training and education around Native Hawaiian Law. Folks also
ask for concrete tools to operationalize kuleana under these important laws. And I
mention this to emphasize the need. There is a need for leadership, collaboration,
education, and advocacy not just for our cultural practices and practitioners, but for
Native Hawaiian Law. And to be honest, I see a number of issues coming to a head
on our island. And I think education at the outset and communication at the outset is
key.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 14
Gratefully, we are past the point where culture is an added after thought and sprinkled
for good fun. It's central to our way of life. And I would venture to say that Native
Hawaiian Law and its cultural . . . kala mai. I'll, I'll wrap up here. Our, its cultural
underpinnings affect each of our County's departments. So, in short, this office will
have generational impacts. It would be a crucial step to identifying barriers, closing
loopholes, and seeking pono, balance for our practitioners. County, and aina aloha.
So, mahalo for all your work and all you do on behalf of our aina aloha and our
community. Mahalo for your time. So nice to see you folks. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions? Thank you very much
Ms. Lum.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Cindy Manaois. To be
followed by Kerri-Lyn Abarra.
MS. CINDY MANAOIS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
Hi.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. MANAOIS: Good morning, Councilmembers. My name is Cindy Manaois. I am testifying
on agenda CR dash, CR 22-26. Mahalo for listening to ourtestimony at the Committee
and voting to recommend to the Charter Commission that Proposal 1 to establish
district voting and re-apportionment committee not be sent to the ballot. This proposal,
this proposed Charter amendment makes me feel like you're taking my voice away and
not giving me the right to cast my vote for the entire Maui County Councilmembers who
makes decisions that represent all of Maui County. Voting gives us, the people, the
power to decide who we want to represent us. That right should not be taken away
from me.
I am also in support of sending Proposal 8, to create a Department of ‘Oiwi Resources
to the ballot for the same reasons that U'i had just stated.
I also support Proposal 6, to include Kalaupapa to Maui County. They're on our island
it should be with Molokai. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for your testimony. Members, questions? If not, thank you so much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 15
MS. MANAOIS: Thank you. God bless you all.
CHAIR LEE: Bless you too.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testify is Kerri-Lyn Abarra. To be
followed by Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE; Good morning.
MS. KERRI-LYN ABARRA (testifying on Resolution No. 22-84):
Aloha. Good morning. My name is Kerri-Lynn Abarra. You know, my husband and I
have two daughters with a third on her way within the next couple of weeks, and just
saying we're all born and raised on the island of Maui. I am testifying on 22-84,
authorizing the disposition of real property to Housing and Land Enterprise of Maui for
Na Hale O Maui, and the waiver of the outstanding real property taxes.
1 am in support of this measure because, as a young family myself, I would like to own
a home in my own lifetime. My mother, who is currently on the Hawaiian Homes wait
list, but because she has a blood quantum. But at this moment, we don't know when
that will come to pass, where she could also own her own home. With this passage, it
is possible that it may allow me to own a house before my mother does. Right now,
my family and I are ready financially, you know, physically, mentally prepared for
homeownership. And with this measure, it does allot 19 properties to Na Hale O Maui.
And although it will not. it can't guarantee anything for my family and I, but it will allow
other families who are in similar situations to have the opportunities. And I won't be
too far behind that as well.
I am. you know, eager, ready to put some roots someplace in this, you know, in our
birthplace, and not have to move around, and rent all the time, and have our rent money
go someplace else versus into homeownership that it could then be passed down to
our children. And, you know, we, my husband and I would love our children to grow
up in a community with longtime neighbors, longtime friends that they can see, you
know, growing up throughout their lives, as they are still young. I kindly ask that Council
not wait, and to take action today so that myself and others don't have to wait any
longer for a home for our families. I appreciate your time on this Aloha Friday morning.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member Kama.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 16
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yes. You mentioned your children were young. How old are
they?
MS. ABARRA: My children are 9 and 5. And then, I have one coming within the next couple
of weeks.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. And thank you for your testimony. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Abarra.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person we have signed up to testify is Mike Moran. To
be followed by Kealoha Laemoa.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION rtestifyina on Bill Nos. 57 (2022)
and 58 (202211:
Good morning. Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association. And my head gear may give you a tip that I'm going to change the topic
of testifying, and talk about safe bicycling in our, at least in our district and hopefully all
over our island.
I think we all hear, so often, about all the value of safe bicycling. Recently, we've been
hearing a lot of the problems of business-oriented bicycling Upcountry. We have kind
of an opposite situation in South Maui, where we don't have sufficient places for safe
bicycling. And yes, there's plenty places to bicycle for the class-A guys that will go
right out there with the cars and the high-speed roads. But for our keiki, for our old
haole goats like me, we want to be able to use a bicycle to do things, so we don't have
to use the vehicle. And we all go through that, well, we have climate change, and we
have pollution, and we have crowded roads. So, the more places we can make safe
bicycling, the better for our overall community.
The prime thing is getting the, the bicyclists and cars physically separated. And we
see examples of that on our island. In South Maui, we have a major highway. We still
call it the Mukulele [sic] Highway, where we have  asegregated bicycling lane, which is
so much safer. 100 percent safe? No, nothing is 100 percent safe, but much, much
safer. We have a manini greenway back in our 1998 plan. That greenway was going
to go all across Kihei. Well, we've had challenges with that.
So, what's the next best thing we can do if we can't have it separated? If it's going to
go along the roadway, how can we make it safer? Not the safest, but safer. And we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 17
have seen countless examples of this all over. And more recently we see it in Honolulu,
where they took a street, and they take the lane, and they paint it bright green. And
that's all it does to make the, the difference in the driver's mind. It's not just the white
line, which is like, looks like a shoulder, while it looks like something different. And
drivers have been shown in numerous tests that they are more aware of that, and they
stay away from it.
And that’s what we're talking about this morning in Bills 57 and 58. A pilot project that
we have been trying to get done for a decade. And we are as close as we ever will be
that Public Works said they will do it on a segment of Lipoa, which leads to three of our
schools. So, that can really help the keiki. And it can help the old goats like me who
want to go to the library, and to the farmers market tomorrow morning and have one
less car. We used to have a, a bike from here that that was their t-shirt, "one last car".
So, we ask you for your consideration on this. We realize this is manini compared to
these major issues. But it can help the whole island. Thank you for the time. And
Chair Lee, thank you for letting me go a little bit over time. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo, Mike. Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Mike. Have a great
weekend.
MR. MORAN: Safe bicycling all. Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual we have signed up to testify is Kealoha
Laemoa. To be followed by Tom Blackburn-Rodriguez.
MS. KEALOHA LAEMOA (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
Aloha everybody. Can you hear me? Keani, you can hear me? You guys can hear
me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. LAEMOA: Aloha. My name is Kealoha Laemoa. I'm testifying in support of CR-28 [sic].
I support the Council recommendation to not send Proposal 1, district voting to the
ballot. And the reason why is because I do not want my freedom of designation to be
taken way. That is my right, and I don't want that to be taken away.
I support Proposal 8, the establishment of Department of ‘Oiwi Resources.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 18
And I also support Proposal 6 to include Kalaupapa into Maui County at the appropriate
time. My, my grandmother is laying at rest at Kalaupapa. And I feel that her, her legacy
would be better off as a, in Maui County.
But anyway, I am not in support of Proposal 1 in district voting, and that's what I, you
know, wanted to share. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Keani.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions, Members? If not, thank you so much, Kealoha.
MS. LAEMOA: You have a great weekend. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
MS. LAEMOA: And I'm praying for you guys. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person we have signed up to testify is Tom Blackburn-
Rodriguez. To be followed by Jeff Gilbreath.
MR. TOM BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ (testifying on Resolution No. 22-84):
Good morning, Council Chair, Councilmembers. Are you able to pick me up on video
and audio?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we got you.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Thank you. Thank you very much. First of all. I'd like to
just notice that 1 went to the State of the County speech the other day and saw many
Councilmembers I hadn't seen in a long time. You all look so big. You know, you look
so tail, I couldn't believe it. So, I can't wait until we see each other in person again.
But that's just a personal note.
One thing 1 did want to testify, I do want to testify on Resolution 22-84, which is the
transfer of vacant lots to Na Hale O Maui, and with the payment of the property taxes
due on that. I'd like to support that transfer. It was a delight to see Justin Hughey, who
did get the first Na Hale O Maui house when I was president of the organization. What
he didn't tell you was he was able to get married, two careers, and have children, and
get involved in the community. He's a perfect example of what homeownership can
bring to a neighborhood. When I met him as a single man, and now he's married and
has a couple kids. He's a great guy.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 19
But I just wanted to say that one of the things that I always listen for in your work is the
message of hope that you send to us as the citizens of Maui County. And when things
like Na Hale O Maui occur, which is now up to 47 homes, none of which have ever
been foreclosed no matter all the difficulties we went through in 2008 and the
pandemic, 47 homes that when they do move on, people will take equity and it will be
sold to someone in the same low in, in the same income bracket. Though it is for in
perpetuity, the Council, if it votes on this today and moves it forward, is doing what it
does best in what it sends to us, which is a message of hope, which we need so much
in these times.
So, I'd like to urge your passage today of this resolution. To thank you, all you are
doing on affordable housing. It has come so far from when we first began to advocate
for this. And we owe you all a debt of gratitude for that. So, again, please pass
Resolution 22-84. And again, thank you for the message of hope that you send to our
citizens.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Tom. Members, any questions?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning, Tom.
And as always, good to see you. And I think you should be commended as well. You
were early on with Na Hale O Maui and, and you provided a lot of hope. And look at
how the tree has borne, you know, the type of fruit now. A lot of success stories. So,
just wanted to thank you for all your work, as it relates to affordable housing. Thank
you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Molina. Any more questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. So, Mr. Rodriguez, did you, did I hear you say that
you wanted us, you're urging us to pass this, this resolution today?
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, just wanted to make sure I heard right. Thank you, sir.
Thank you. Chair.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Thank you very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 20
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Blackburn-Rodriguez, for
your testimony. I, I and Member Kama for your clarification. I wasn't aware that you
wanted us to pass it today. It says, get referred to the correct Committee. But since
you are saying that, I was wondering, in the transmittal, it says the County developed
a phased approach. Do you know what that means?
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: No, I did not write that document. But my guess is that it
would bring ... on the, as the market area ... there's a duck quacking. But, so I would
imagine it means as the, as the project goes on. But I would have to say that I did not
write the document, so I cannot tell you exactly what is meant by that phrase.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Alright. Yeah, there's not much information in the
transmittal, so we're not, we're not sure what, what is intended, is the issue. It's just
like a two-page letter. But, okay. Thank you.
MR. BLACKBURN-RODRIGUEZ: Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: ... it off again. I thought I was the duck quacking, that's why. Thank you, Tom.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person we have signed up to testify is Jeff Gilbreath.
To be followed by Pamela Tumpap.
MR. JEFF GILBREATH. HAWAIIAN COMMUNITY ASSETS (testifying on Resolution
Nos. 22-84 and 22-85):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Great to see you again. I hope all is well. Happy Aloha
Friday. I am here testifying on behalf of Hawaiian Community Assets, in support of
Resolution 22-84 and 22-85. Or sorry, yeah, 22-85, correct. This would allow the
granting of lots not only to Na Hale 0 Maui, the Maui Lani Fairway lots, but also the
Maui Hospital Foundation.
Both would create leasehold homeownership opportunities and looking at that in
perpetuity. We believe this is a good step forward in making sure that our local families
are housed, and our local workforce has an affordable home to be in. And so, don't
want to take a ton of your time. Just wanted to mahalo you for bringing this forward
and we stand in strong support.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 21
CHAIR LEE: Jeff, can you come back? Jeff? Question for you, from Member Paltin.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Gilbreath. When you were
talking about leasehold, is that for both of the resos? The Maui Health, is that going to
be like a land trust, are you aware?
MR. GILBREATH: In the resolutions that you mentioned leasehold, for both.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The hospital will be the leaseholder, or the County will be the
leaseholder?
MR. GILBREATH: That, I'm not entirely sure. I know that they've been discussing with the
foundation board and the, the administration. I'm not sure which way they've decided.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And you said something about affor, was it, you said something
about affordable in perpetuity, was that for both resolutions, or?
MR. GILBREATH: Yes. So, the idea, I believe, is to use kind of the land trust model or a
leasehold model that would allow for these units to be affordable in perpetuity.
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: And then, do you know what the phased approach means?
MR. GILBREATH: I can't help you with that one, Councilmember. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright. Thank you.
MR. GILBREATH: Of course.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, and then Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. Good morning, Jeff. Nice to see you
here. I wanted to ask you about, actually Tamara's question earlier and Ms. Kama.
So, do you see an urgency of passing this resolution? I think it was regarding-
MR. GILBREATH: Ido.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I mean, today?
MR. GILBREATH: I do.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Giving it, okay. Yes. Why?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 22
MR. GILBREATH: I mean, I do. I, I think you folks have heard me talk at length about
affordable housing. You're probably sick of hearing me. And I believe this--
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: We get it.
MR. GILBREATH: -is an opportunity to move it forward. I do support that. But I do recognize
there are. I'm sure questions that you folks will have and would like to address.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
MR. GILBREATH: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Jeff. If my, if you hear
my dog snoring in the background, it's not me, it's my dog. I don't know, she's loud.
But anyways, in the cap, it's recommended to get community input on projects. And
do you recommend this, that this goes to Committee, so we can allow our communities
to have inputs, or do you, well, especially considering these lots and the history of
them?
MR. GILBREATH: Through our community engagement, Councilmember, we heard the idea
of transferring these lots in this manner of being supported by community members
and through key stakeholder interviews. For us, we're always supportive of community
engagement. If the Council thinks that is the appropriate way forward, we would
support that. But I will tell you that we heard through our community engagement that
there was support from the community to do this type of transfer to leasehold and to
nonprofits to move forward to, to get to our families.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you so much, Jeff. I have no further questions
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Gilbreath. I just was reading
about the, the reso, and it says of the 33 residential lots, 16 will be designated in
perpetuity. So then. I'm assuming the rest of the 33 are not. And I just was wondering
if, if that's what you meant when you said, "all of them"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 23
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I, that's for what, the two resolutions, right, 84 and 85? And
I believe in 85 it states the same, the language is, it's almost mirrored.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This is the one from Maui Health
MR. GILBREATH; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; And it says, "the first phase of 32 residential lots, with 16 of
them designated in perpetuity for healthcare providers". So, I just was wondering what
about the, the rest, 17 or whatever? Is that not in perpetuity?
MR. GILBREATH: Yes. No, good catch. Good catch. I know, I know that those 16 are, as
you stated, i guess I had, I, I guess that answers also the phase-in question. The first
16 being in perpetuity. But those other 17 then, I, I don't know the answer to that, but
I'm assuming that it's not defined. That's probably something to follow up on.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, the part about the phased approach talks about working
with adjacent residents' concerns because of the large retaining wall which concern
adjacent Palama Drive residents. That was, I think the phased approach was in
relation to that. Because before when it was built, it was being built and all of that fill
came in, and then the foundation of the adjacent homeowners' houses were beginning
to crack, and all of the, their house was filling up with that dust. So, I thought the
phased approach had to do deal with maybe mitigating the effects on the existing
homeowners' structures. But you're saying the phased approach has to do with
something else in terms of half of them being in perpetuity?
MR. GILBREATH: That was, I was just, I was just making an assumption, Councilmember. I
am not, I haven't been involved in these conversations. So, I think it's probably better
suited for the Administration to address, or the folks who have been involved in
conversations, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Alright. Thanks for clarifying that.
CHAIR LEE: You done. Member Paltin? Done? Okay.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Gilbreath. Mahaloforyour
testimony this morning. So, just to clarify, you're not asking this Council to pass those
Resolutions 84 and 85 today, right? Because of all these, the discussion that you had
with Member Paltin on all these unresolved issues, and we really have no idea on the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 24
details of the plan, of the phased approach, how the neighbors will be addressed, how
the illegal grading will be reduced by 11 or so feet, how all that toxic soil from Pioneer
Mill will be disposed of? So, all of these issues, you're, you're not asking us to pass
this, these resolutions today, right?
MR. GILBREATH; I'm asking you folks to support it moving forward, right? And I, and I think
it sounds like there needs to be some conversation, at least by the way ... So, yeah,
we, we support moving forward and having those important conversations.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Great. I'm planning to take it to Committee. Mahalo
Mr. Gilbreath. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else. Members? If not, thank you, Jeff. Have a good weekend.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual signed up to testify is Pamela Tumpap. To
be followed by Marian Horikawa-Barth.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-26 and Resolution Nos. 22-84 and 22-85);
Aloha. Dzien dobry and Happy Aloha Friday, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, and Members of the County Council. I'm Pamela Tumpap, President of
the Maui Chamber of Commerce, here to testify today on three items. The first is on
the Charter amendments. I understand it's being taken as a whole package.
Unfortunately, I wish we could break it apart, but do want to commend the Committee
on tackling this on a short time that was allotted to you by the Charter, and do want to
share our thoughts, as, as this is an important time to educate as we move fonward.
We strongly agree with eliminating Proposal 1 from the, the ballot and appreciate your
concurrence with this issue.
We also support the Committee's recommendation on Proposal 2.
For Proposals 4 and 9, we would support either version, as long as there is only one
proposal related to this item on the ballot, so as not to confuse voters.
On Proposals 5, 8, 11, and 12, we do not believe either version of the language should
be included on the ballot. And we've given you our additional thoughts in written
testimony on this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 25
I'd also like to share some thoughts on Proposals 3, 6, 7, and 10. On Proposal 3, the
Chamber supports the original proposal from the Charter Commission. We feel that
any Charter amendment proposal should be analyzed by the Auditor for potential fiscal
impacts so the voters know what the amendment might cost. And while we agree with
what the Committee suggested that entities proposing amendments should include the
fiscal, economic, and other impacts when submitting their amendments be considered.
Unfortunately, that rarely happens, and it's not consistently done. And that's why we
do not support the amendments to this proposal and support the original version.
On Proposal 6, we oppose both the original and the alternative versions and do not
think these rise to the level of a Charter amendment. While we feel that this proposal
is far better than creating nine individual planning commissions as was originally
suggested, we do think that this amendment, or the Committees, we do not think this
amendment or the Committee's alternatives will solve the issue. We frequently hear
that people don't want to serve on boards and commissions when they see the process.
They're frustrated by how people are being treated during the testimony process. And
we also question, given, while we like the idea of having, if there were two, having one
in an SMA area, that may not work for Upcountry areas. So, we feel that needs further
thought.
On Proposal 7, we are in strong support of bifurcating the Department of Housing and
Human Concerns. And we agree with the Committee's suggestion on including the
requirement to perform other duties and functions as may be assigned by the Mayor.
So, we, we are going to share more on that in our written testimony. But if affordable
housing and rentals is a top priority, we feel this is a good initiative to support.
And on Proposal 10, we oppose the original proposal and the Committee's alternative.
We feel this current system is fair and balanced with the Administration proposing and
making recommendations and the Council's final determination. So, I'll stop there, if
that's alright, and move onto affordable housing and the two resolutions on that?
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you. We just, we strongly support both of these resolutions to Na Hale
O Maui for affordable workforce housing and to Maui Health Foundation for housing
for medical personnel. Again, affordable housing and rentals is one of our top priorities
and has consistently moved up for the last several years at the Chamber. Usually, our
focus, the top priorities has always revolved around our economy and further economic
diversification. But we have a clear need, so we support both of these proposals.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 26
I've gotten to listen to the questions today and understand that while we feel that, you
know, we want to see things urgently move, and in the past the Council has also really
wanted to see things urgently move, we understand there's important questions to get
answers on. So, we hope that can be done as expeditiously as possible and strongly
support both resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any, are you done?
MS. TUMPAP; lam. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, thank you, Pam. Questions, Members? If not, thank you very, oh, we
have one.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA: One, one fast. Yeah, thank you, one fast one. On the
Charter amendments, on Proposal 6.
MS. TUMPAP: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And you're saying you are in opposition of a portion of it.
And can you expand what it was? Sorry, I didn't write it down.
MS. TUMPAP: So, I'll share a little bit more. I know. I'm sorry, I went through things very fast.
We feel the, the proposal is far better than creating nine individual planning
commissions, as originally suggested. But we do not think the amendment or the
committee's alternatives will solve this. And the, the Council approves the nominees
for the planning commissions. And we feel that we should put the highest priority on
expertise, but also consider geographic location and broader representation.
But we're, the challenge we're finding consistently as we talked to people who are
watching others go through the process, good people who want to serve are really
being disenfranchised from service with the way they see how people are being
treated. And we feel, really the, you know, we want to see the proposals continue to,
we want to have good people serve. And so, we just don't feel that this, this
amendment or the original proposal is really going to work. So, for those reasons, we
are concerned about that.
But also, in the current proposal, while we appreciate the modification to say that, you
know, again, looking at the districting that we could have two representatives from a
community plan district, but one would have to reside in an SMA area. That wouldn't
necessarily work for Upcountry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 27
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. I agree with you
about that last statement.
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah, and I think, you know, again, it works for many areas, but not for
Upcountry. Thank you for the opportunity.
CHAIR LEE: Another question. Another question from Member Paltin.
MS. TUMPAP; Yes. Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thankyou, Ms. Tumpap, for your testimony.
I guess my question was on that same Charter proposal. If you don't like either version,
how do you reconcile when decisions are being made about a certain area that nobody
on that commission resides in, or has that sort of knowledge about? You're okay with
that decision is being made for areas that nobody lives in the area? Like, right now, on
the Planning Commission, there's nobody on the Upcountry seat. So, that's my
question.
MS. TUMPAP: Well, we would far prefer that. And we've stated that before in the, along the
process. But you know, we feel that the commission, in terms of when they don't have
that type of representation, we do feel that the commission needs to get that expertise
and really consider that area if we don't have somebody specifically representing that
area and do their fact-finding and research. We feel, you know, having qualified people
serve is really important. But we just don't feel the way the proposals are, are being
put forward is something that we support, in terms of how they're looking at the process.
But again, we do, we do like having broader representation. It's just that the way the
proposals are written, we ultimately don't feel it will work.
And the bottom line is, we feel there needs to be, in terms of having people serve on
boards and commissions, a more open, respectful process, where people are
appreciated for wanting to serve, and volunteer their time, where people are
appreciated for their past good works that they've done. And whether or not they're
selected, they should be treated respectfully.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; To clarify, you think that there is broader representation going
on right now, because Upcountry is not represented. There's nobody on the . . .
MS. TUMPAP: No, I didn't say that I think that we have all of the sections represented. I
understand that. I'm saying, though, that in areas where we don't, I think that the
commission needs to take into account, and there's many ways for testifiers in those
areas to participate in the process and help educate the commissioners.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you for clarifying.
MS. TUMPAP; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha Ms. Tumpap. Mahalo for your
testimony this morning. So, I just, I wanted to clarify, when you say that you want
expertise on the commission, on the plan, on these planning commissions to be the
voting and deciding, you know, people, the people, the decision-makers on this
commission, not just testifiers, but decision-makers on this commission. That the
expertise that you are talking about are developers, realtors, labor unions, those that
have financial interests. And the expertise that you're talking about is not those that
have an expertise on the quality of life in the region that they live?
MS. TUMPAP: No, ma'am. You're putting words in my mouth that I specifically didn't say.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Ms. Tumpap. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Good morning, Ms. Tumpap. And
I appreciate your comments, as always, on all of our issues and your participation. Just
wanted to ask you, if you could cite, you know, you mentioned nominees being treated
with, with more respect. Can you cite examples of what you believe, I guess, no
respect is being shown to the nominees?
MS. TUMPAP: Oh, well, thank you for asking the question. But actually, there are so many
instances that we hear about, that really, if you'd like. I'd be happy to put together some
videoclips for you. It'll take some time. But there are so many videoclips, that if you
watch, watch that, I think you could understand where people maybe felt there, there
was disrespect. But if you'd like. I'd be happy to pull some clips for you, and talk to
some people, so I could go back to dates when those hearings were held and give you
a highlight reel.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, at some future point. But, you know, I guess for me as,
as facilitator of the meetings, you know, I have to determine where the line is drawn so
to speak, between, you know, allowing the Members to properly vet the nominees
versus, you know, what I perceive as maybe disrespect. But, but it's healthy. I
appreciate your input, so. Yeah, at some point. I'd be happy to get that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 29
MS. TUMPAP; I think it would be better that I do that, because, you know, I don't think
anybody wants me to specifically name them or share their specific feelings. So, if I
were to give you specific instances right now, that's what I'd need to do. And I don't
think that's appropriate. But better if I share videos that help you see, and then to let
you determine for yourself, whether you feel they might have felt disrespected during
the process would be more helpful.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Yeah, I appreciate that at, at a later point. And we can
do some review and do maybe some self-check on my approach to facilitating
meetings. But it's always good to hear feedback.  Iappreciate that. So, but-
MS. TUMPAP: And I appreciate you're open.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Alright, thank you, Ms. Tumpap. Thank you. Madam
Chair.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Tumpap for your, your
testimony, which kind of brings things to my light too, similar to Mr. Molina. That and
I'd like, I'd like to ask you if you do, when you do this, do you know how long it'll take
you to do it and how soon we'd be able to view that, and how could we view that?
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you for asking the question. Well, to be honest with you, it certainly
wasn't on my, my task list. So, I'll have to take  alook. But I, I think I can go back to
some of the prior comments, or things that we heard along the way, and work with
Amber. We'll, we'll have to take a look. I, I'd be happy to get back to you with maybe
an assessment. Of course, we're still in legislative session, so we're ringing in on a lot
of State bills right now and we're getting to a point where it's getting a little more urgent,
because we're after crossover.
But I'll do my best. I, I think, you know, to, it would be inappropriate to just submit, you
know, two or three, because that doesn't really show the breadth of what we're talking
about. So, I'll kind of need, I think at a minimum, we should give you a sample of at
least ten. And so. I'll need to see what it takes. We don't have in-house video editing
capacity, but maybe we can tell you the dates and the specific timeframes for the clips,
or something like that, is what I'm envisioning maybe at the moment, or more
extensively if we can fit it in or, or get some help.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 30
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I, because I think what you had to say just resonates with me,
that if our people are thinking or feeling disrespected, then certainly, if there is error,
then, you know, like all things, we are humans, we’re subject to, to doing and saying
things, and sometimes unrealizing it, that we have offended people. And I’d like to be
able to see that. And, you know, my deepest apologies to our people for that. So,
thank you for doing that. Thank you, Chair.
MS. TUMPAP: . . . appreciate your kind comments. And, and you know, people, testimony
and service is something we want to encourage our people to do. And we also hear
some of it on testimony. There's tones and things and ways people are treated that
they can feel frustrated a little bit on testimony. But when it especially comes, so, so
that limits voices, but when it especially comes to them wanting to give their time, not
be paid and serve, I think it's critically important that we look at this.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, thank you, Pam. Have a good weekend.
MS. TUMPAP: Mahalo. You too. Happy Aloha Friday.
CHAIR LEE: Thanks.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next individual signed up to testify is Marian Horikawa-Barth.
To be followed by Bridget Mowat.
MS. MARIAN HORIKAWA-BARTH (testifying on Resolution No. 22-85):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Aloha and good morning. Thank you, Councilmembers, for
allowing me to support the Maui, Maui Lani Resolution 22-85. My name is Marian
Horikawa-Barth, and I am the Chief Nurse Executive at Maui Memorial Medical Center.
I'm a Maui girl, I was actually born at Maui Memorial, attended Baldwin High School,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 31
Maui Community College. And I've been working at Maui Memorial for the last
18 years. I spent many years living on the mainland and came home to raise my family.
There's no place like home and like Maui. We live in one of the most beautiful places
on earth, that draws visitors from all over the world.
But we often cannot attract, attract or retain skilled medical professionals for one
reason, and that's a place to call home. Finding  aplace to live on Maui is extremely
difficult. Nurses that have good jobs and a steady income are really struggling to find
housing that they can afford. That's why I’m here asking for your support of the Maui
Lani resolution.
Maui Memorial Medical Center. Maui Flealth is the only place on the island that can
provide critical life-saving care to our residents and visitors. And we do so for everyone
that comes through our doors. Our emergency department is the second busiest in
the State, seeing more than 41,000 patients in 2021. We offer award level cardiac and
stroke care, as well as excellent trauma, mother-baby, med-surge, and behavioral
healthcare. For those with the most critical needs, we know that there's no other option,
and these folks do not have the time to delay treatment or look for lifesaving care on
another island. Flaving skilled medical professionals is central to providing this high-
level quality of care.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center has about 75 registered nurse openings, despite
hiring 80-plus University of Flawaii-Maui College nursing program graduates over the
last three years. We've hired every one of them that has applied to us and, you know,
really tried to keep and retain them. This island. State, and national shortage stresses
our nurses, our Maui nurses that are already stretched and exhausted with this
pandemic. The nursing and healthcare provider shortage directly impacts the quality
of life on Maui.
This Maui, Maui Lani resolution will enable us to attract medical professionals who can
meet the greatest healthcare needs in our community and help us to prepare for future
growth. Please support your Maui born medical professionals who wish to return home
to care for our ohana and retain current Maui nurses looking to purchase their first
home on Maui. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Barth. Thank you for being here.
And, you know, I completely agree. 1 think there’s two parts to the medical profession
trying to, trying to fill those positions. And one is housing and the other is salaries, so.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 32
which is the State issue. So, you know, if we get, we're, you know, many of us are, are
supporting the, the increase in minimum wage, but will that affect those higher salaries
too? If we can get those, if we can get one of those bills passed, will that allow us to
actually pay higher salaries to people in the health profession?
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: You know, I'm sorry, I can't answer that question. So many of our
healthcare providers that provide direct care are part of a union and so, that is part of
the negotiation that comes with that, that bargaining. So, I, I’m sorry--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Are their salaries, are their salaries commensurate with salaries
on the mainland? Are we paying at least. . .
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Yes, actually. I've recently read an article that said that in fact we
are, the State of Hawaii is actually second, right behind California in, as far as salaries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. That's great to know. Thank you so much. Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And if I may add, we may be second behind California in salaries, but 44th in
the nation when you, when you factor in the cost of living.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Exactly. Just like teaching.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just like the teaching profession, so.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Yes. Thank you for that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Horikawa-Barth, for your
service and your testimony. I just was reading the reso that you were testifying on.
And it talks about the first phase of 33 residential lots and 16 designated in perpetuity
for healthcare providers. And I just was wondering with like you know you said
70-80 vacancies in nursing, and the transmittal says 400 vacancies overall. I just was
wondering if you would prefer all 33 lots to be held in perpetuity, specifically for
healthcare providers? I mean, what about the other 17?
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: You know. I'm, I'm sorry, again, not prepared to speak to the, the
number of lots that are noted in the resolution.  1think that if, if that would be possible,
it would be very helpful for us. You know, just today, I talked to a nurse who wants to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 33
come, and she's really concerned because of the high price of housing and is not sure
how she's going to make it. So, you know, what we can, if we could even offer
something in that way, to a wider range, that would be fantastic.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'm just trying to clarify the preference. Like, you're not
intending for those houses to belong to someone, and say they move someplace else
and to be sold at fair market value. You prefer them to be like a cache for the hospital
or something, so that employees of the hospital would always have like 16 or 33 that
they could fill up and always have 33 workers at least living there, rather than just the
first 33 or the first 16, and then once if they move or whatever, then it's not, not part of
the healthcare inventory anymore? Am I correct as to your preference?
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: I think what you initially said was the, for it to be in perpetuity, so
that a healthcare worker would, would sell to another healthcare worker. That is
correct. We would, we would really prefer that, because--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . like a healthcare land trust, or. . . like a little bit of a low-
income land trust, and DHHL as being the 50 percent Hawaiian blood quantum land
trust. This would be like a healthcare land trust principal idea.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Yes. Yes, Councilman.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I just, I just wanted to clarify on what it is the
healthcare profession is looking to see created, and that was my sentiment. But thank
you for clarifying.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Thank you for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you, Ms. Horikawa-Barth. Good
to see you again.
MS. HORIKAWA-BARTH: Thank you.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next person signed up to testify is Bridget Mowat. To be
followed by Sam Small.
CHAIR LEE: And how many more. Member, I mean, Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ten more. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Oh, what's that sound?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 34
MS. BRIDGET MOWAT (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
It’s not me.
CHAIR LEE: Hello, Ms. Mowat.
MS. MOWAT; Mowat. Good morning. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for allowing
us again to just share our support. I'm, I'm, you folks worked so hard on this. And it,
what an emotional rollercoaster it is. I was just watching. I wasn't, you know, and it,
you folks really work hard, and I really appreciate all of you.
And I just want to just give my mana'o on the 22-26, especially in support of your vote
to keep the first proposal off the ballot. And, and I appreciate that, because I really
believe it should be representation, and not population, and being that we're so
different. And if there are two other people on, on Maui who does not, who's never
even visited Molokai, and there are many people that have not come to Molokai and
don't know Molokai or Lanai. So, I really appreciate that, that, the vote you made to
keep that in, I, or to keep it out.
The, and I also was happy with your decision to go with the, to put the 8th proposal on
the, on the ballot. I was, particularly with the, you know, where it says the powers and
duties when they talk about the, to guide the County and correct usage of Hawaiian
language, and place names, and integration of Hawaiian language. And, you know,
it's really important, because the tourist. Tourism Authority is going to, is going toward
educating tourists. So, what better way to educate tourists than to make sure that, that
everything is correct?
I mean, there's so many little nicknames, like Giggle Hill up in, in Maui. And what is
the name of that? What is the name of that place, you know? So, it's really important
that we have one resource, one place that we can go to, and, and get the, you know,
and we can all support that. So, I, I was really disappointed by the vote, how it went 4,
4-5, just by one vote, vote, we got it on the ballot. So, I really appreciate all your hard
work in, in, in this.
And, you know, just a little thing about, I talked to plenty of people about this Charter
amendments being on ballots. And people, a lot of them didn't even know what that
was. A lot of them said, oh, I don't understand what that is. I just go by, I just check
off a lot of it because they didn't understand the language, it's not in layman terms.
And, and, you know, and I was guilty of that. This is actually the first year that I’m
getting into this and it's so important.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 35
So. i don't know, do you, is there a way to post it up prior to the, being on the ballot, so
people can review it, do research? Or, you know, to, to really give educated check, or
not check. So, that's just something I wanted to share. And I thank you folks for all
your hard work. You folks make a great team. Mahalo and have a good day. And we,
too, are praying for all of you, and the Charter Commission. So, have a great day.
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Mowat, for your testimony.
I kind of felt the same way as you. And I, I guess my question was, you know, I thought
when they gave us over the proposals that they would let us know what issue they
were trying to solve. But it just came as a proposal. And so, my question to you, I
guess, you know, going forward in, in kind of Charter amendment process, do you think
it would be helpful if along with the Charter resolution, the folks would let us know what
is the problem that they're trying to solve?
MS. MOWAT: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. And that way we're going to find out how it affects
us individually or as an island? And if there was, I don't know if they used to do this
before, but did they print in the newspaper, the resolutions before? I don't see that
now.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Cause if, cause they never decide what is going to be on the
ballot. . .
MS. MOWAT: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, this was . . . and then when we decide that, then whatever
they decide .... I believe they print that out and get the information out.
MS. MOWAT: And, and give the . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Okay. Sorry, thank you.
MS. MOWAT: No, no.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I'm surprised that you brought up Giggle Hill. Did you, did you live in Haiku?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 36
MS. MOWAT: I, no, no. I was, I was actually born and raised on Maui, so as a kid. But you
know, what? I lived, I was raised in Paukukalo area, so Giggle Hill was, I've never, I
went there only once.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. MOWAT: But I, I lived and the spooky story about the babies laughing, and I've never
went.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, well, you know Giggle Hill was occupied by the Marines, yeah, during the
war? So, that whole Camp Maui area and I--
MS. MOWAT: So, how did they, so how did they get the giggle? Were they all giggling?
They must have been all sucking em up, up there.
CHAIR LEE: When the local, when the local girls were dating the Marines.
MS. MOWAT: Oh, they were giggling. I wonder what they was doing.
CHAIR LEE: Nothing. But anyway, thank you--
MS. MOWAT: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: --for joining the call. Appreciate it.
MS. MOWAT: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mahalo.
Mr. Clerk, are you there? Let's take one more before the break.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay, Chair. Then the last person before the break is Sam
Small. And then, after the break, the first testifier will be Lori Buchanan.
MR. SAM SMALL (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-27):
Good morning. Council. Thank you for again for the opportunity. It's an honor to be
able to participate in this process. I thank you on this resolution to change how
conditional permits are administered. You know, my question basically is, is this
intended to include SMA permits? And the reason I ask is that SMA is a slightly
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 37
different animal. SMA is a result of Federal shoreline management laws and a State
program. And typically, SMA permits are handled very differently by the departments.
And an enormous amount of discretion is afforded to the Director in the administration
of SMA permits specifically. And those are, you know, Special Management Area
permits typically related to the shoreline that have tremendous economic value, and
also tremendous environmental and social impacts to our community. And yet, the
Director is afforded even, apparently, even more discretion to violate the citizens'
rights.
SMA permits are issued, the Planning Commission, as it stands, we only have a 10-day
window with which to become aware that an SMA permit, or an SMA minor has been
issued to a property. That's not very long. The developer themselves has a 30-day
window to appeal. But the public only has a 10-day window to appeal. We don't even
know that these, unless we're actively monitoring what the Planning Commission is
receiving, we don't even know that an SMA minor permit has been issued.
How nice it would be to have legislation that, like a, a short-term rental, you got to put
a sign up on your property for six months, so that the public, the community can see
for themselves that an SMA minor permit that allows a developer to do basically
whatever they want, and avoid all, all community engagement and environmental
assessments that that is taking place. A simple change like that.
And in the resolution that you are presenting here, in its title, please just add comma
at the end, comma, including SMA. You know, those are some of the simple fixes that,
that could go a long way for empowering the community, so that we have the
appropriate oversight. . . you know, these, these actions by directors.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Small. Any comments or questions
Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Small.
MR. SMALL: Thank you, Council.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, ready for, for the recess? Okay, so after recess we have how many
more?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we currently have eight individuals left signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, Members, recess until 10:40.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:26 A.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:44 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 38
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of March 18, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, proceed with testimony.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is Lori Buchanan. To
be followed by Lavy Sisouvong.
MS. LORI BUCHANAN (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-25 and 22-26):
Aloha, Honorable Chair Lee and Honorable Councilmembers. It's always a pleasure
to see all of you, just so I can tell you how much I appreciate all of your work. And yes,
Molokai is praying for all of you--
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. BUCHANAN: -all the time, 24, on CC, and the good book tells us to do, because your
work is hard. And with that, I do want to support your items 1. the recommendations
not to send the proposal to the ballot. And then, number 2, for me, very close is the, is
the issue of Kalaupapa. So much so that we are trying to convene stakeholders of
beneficiaries and other members to specifically address Kalaupapa. And supporting,
of course, our Department of ‘Oiwi Resources. As  aNative Hawaiian, we’ve played
defense all our life, and we really appreciate the Council listening to our, our effort to
try and help us resolve those issues.
Based on testimony I heard earlier, I did want to comment on CR 22-25, the adoption
of resolutions for boards and commissions. And I wanted to praise the Council
because that's where the rubber hits the road. The Council has the final authority to
appoint people to boards and commissions. And at that time, is your time to put good
people on boards and commissions who would serve in a capacity to help all members
of the community and their commissions, and not be oppressive and what I'd like to
refer to as bullying sometimes.
And so, that really starts at that point, where people are appointed to boards and
commissions. If you get good people on commissions, they do really good work and
they pull everybody up and are inclusive. And that's when you can get really great
work done. And, and that comes at your level, the Council level. And if by chance
something slips by, which they do, you always have that ability to go to the Board of
Ethics. So, there is other means of oversight to try to fight oppression, because here
on Molokai, we have seen it all. And so, when, when somebody says that we give time
with no pay, you know, I never see on one resume yet that I put forward that speaks to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 39
that altruistic endeavor of just serving for the purpose of serving without wanting to be
paid back by quid pro quo, or whatever means you might have.
And so, the Council is so important. I can sleep at night knowing that you guys are all
the gatekeepers to, to make sure that this happens.
And I wanted do one shout out for Gabe Johnson, who has his background as the iimu.
I just got mine, Member Johnson, and I'm going to put it up as soon as I work out how
I going do that. And, and it touches my heart, because ... my mother was a limu
practitioner, Hi'aka Purdy who was born in Ulupalakua in one small little house on, on
the ranch. And so, I learned from her to be a limu practitioner. So, it touches my heart
to have the year of the limu. And thank you again. Love you guys all. And Molokai is
praying for you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Lori. Members, any questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Lori, for sharing with us that you
are a limu practitioner. So, I don't know how Okie dokie this question is, but do you
have limu ‘ele'ele?
MS. BUCHANAN: Ooh, secret, secret. I'm going to tell you, honestly, it’s really hard to find
because of the freshwater sources that do not intermingle. . .
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MS. BUCHANAN: So, we can do all scientific stuff, cause you know that I work for UH. And
so, but if I find some, I know where going go.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
MS. BUCHANAN; Yeah, and, and people don't know this, there's two types. Everybody think
that's limu ‘ele'ele, but it's not, okay. So, the stringy one is not the one. It's bitter, it's
hard to chew. You have to look for the one that is clear and has bubbles in between.
And after you clean um, that's when it looks tike the hair. And that's the one that you
can chew and it's soft. So, thank you for asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you for sharing. I look at Member Paltin.
MS. BUCHANAN; Yes. She's showing off her calendar that I never get yet.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 40
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Lori. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Aloha, Ms. Buchanan. Always
wonderful to hear from you. And just wanted to say mahalo for your prayers and all of
the other previous testifiers from Molokai. We, you know, we really appreciate it. Our
jobs, sometimes we don't get a lot of good things said to us. So, whenever we hear it,
it's much, much appreciated. And I got to ask you one question, since we all on limu,
yeah. What is the Hawaiian word for the one that they call "rat feet", the green one,
kind of crunchy?
MS. BUCHANAN; Not wawae'iole?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I think that.
MS. BUCHANAN: Wawae'iole?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
MS. BUCHANAN: Oh yeah. Tomato, onion, shoyu, vinegar, sugar.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that's the one-
MS. BUCHANAN: And you know-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: --my mother used to give me  alot when I was a kid.
MS. BUCHANAN: Because Maui was prolific, yeah? Maui was known for its wawae'iole.
And my mother being brought up on, in Maui, we were all eating wawae'iole. But you
cannot find wawae'iole on Molokai, you know, and other places, so.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. But thank you for that Information.
MS. BUCHANAN: . . . showing off.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Well, mahalo, Lori. Madam Chair, my apologies if we went a
little bit off-script of the agenda, yeah. But thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 41
CHAIR LEE: No problem. No problem.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I, I, I'm, thank you so much for being here Lori,
and for all your work. And I just wanted to say for the comments on the planning, on
the Charter amendments, that you folks really show what, how, how well you can
protect your community when you have your own planning commission. And so, for
those of us who were pushing for individual planning commissions for our districts, you
know, it's because, watching what you're doing over there on Molokai. And we would
like the same protections and same representation. So, unfortunately, it didn't end up
that way in the package, but you guys continue to be a good example for your
community. Thank you.
MS. BUCHANAN: Thank you. Member King. Totally understand that, totally. Thank you very
much for the kind words.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, mahalo for everything and have a wonderful weekend
Lori.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Next person signed up to testify is Lavy Sisouvong. To be
followed by Tamar Goodfellow.
MR. LAVY SISOUVONG (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-84 and 22-85):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. SISOUVONG: ... Aloha. I apologize ahead of time if my audio gets cut off a little bit.
You know, we're on the road right now. I'm taking my kids to an appointment. I'm here
to testify on behalf of Na Hale O Maui in support of Resolution 22-84 and 22-85. So, I
went through the four-step program and became a homeowner myself. And it's actually
made, you know, the American dream come true for myself and, and family. It's given
myself and my family better health, well-being, and peace of mind. And yes, I support
this wholeheartedly.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18,2022
Page 42
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. Anybody with a question? Any Members? If not
thank you very much for your testimony.
Mr. Clerk.
MR. SISOUVONG: Thank you. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Tamar Goodfellow. To
be followed by Cassandra Abdul.
MS. TAMAR GOODFELLOW. MAUI HEALTH FOUNDATION (testifying on Resolution
No. 22-85):
Good morning. I'm trying to unmoot, unmute my video.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
MS. GOODFELLOW: There, good. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay, we can see you.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Good morning, everybody. Mahalo for taking the time to allow us to
testify and for looking at these resolutions. I'm hoping that in my brief testimony I can
answer some of the questions that were raised earlier by some of the Councilmembers.
My name is Tamar Goodfellow. My only involvement in this is as a volunteer. I am the
volunteer Chair or President of the Maui Health Foundation. And I also serve as a
volunteer on the Maui Hospital Board. And the reason I do that is because of my
passion for having life-saving healthcare here on Maui for all of our residents and all of
our visitors.
And you’ve heard from some of the other people that have testified. Our hospital
serves over 40,000 people every year. Our emergency room is the second busiest in
the State. Our employees at the hospital, our nurses, our doctors, our techs, are some
of the finest people on this planet. They work their hearts out. They survived the whole
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 43
COVID thing and they're still working their hearts out. And what's so sad is that every
department at the hospital is short staffed right now. You know, in the, in the resolution
it talks about the shortage of doctors, and the shortage of nurses, but it's techs, it's
every level of employees at the hospital.
And as I've said in my testimony previously, that was written, the biggest cause for that
is we can't recruit, we can't get people to come because there's no housing. We can't
get people to say, because there's no housing. And I recognize that there are a lot of
issues around these Maui Lani lots, that these lots have been under controversy for
more than 11 years. And, and I totally support the questions that Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez brought up of is it important to hear what the community has to
say, and the stakeholders have to say? And I would say, yes, 100 percent. And at the
same time, I would say, we have a housing crisis, and we have a crisis in terms of
being able to recruit and retain care providers for our community. And one is not more
important than the other. They are equally or, or jointly important.
And so, the concept in this resolution was could we, could we, and I say "we" because
the Maui Health Foundation, in collaboration with Na Hale O Maui, who I believe is
testifying next, looked at the whole project. We walked the project. We did a lot of due
diligence over the last several months. And, and of course, Na Hale 0 Maui has been
working on this way longer than the Maui Health Foundation.
But the concept was, could we take the portion of these lots that are highly
controversial, that affect the Palama Street residents that have issues or concern, could
we break that into a separate phase? Which is the question to Councilmember Paltin's
questions about what is the phases? So, the concept was, there are a number of lots
that are on the golf course that are, need to be built upon. Could we build out those to
get 33 homes for workforce, between Na Hale O Maui and the Hospital Foundation?
And that those lots that are controversial and need a lot more work with a lot more
community involvement, could those be separated out and looked at as a separate
project and a separate phase? And I'll end there and answer any questions I can.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. 1 guess I was wondering, so would Na Hale
O Maui hold the land trust for the Maui Health Foundation lot?
MS. GOODFELLOW: The, the way that, that was one idea that we explored. And because
some of those lots would be at a higher price, even though they'll still be lower than
market price, the concept was that Na Hale O Maui would take 19 of the lots, and those
would be for all workforce people below the 140 percent AMI. And the balance of the
lots, the other 16 of the 33, would be held by the Maui Health Foundation, also in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 44
perpetuity, modeled exactly after the Na Hale O Maui land trust program, so the land
would be held in perpetuity by the Foundation. Like you asked the question earlier, we
would just cycle care providers through those homes, and they would share an equity
just similar to Maui Lani. The idea was is that, you know, we could send techs and
other people, care providers, that, you know, couldn't afford the higher level, could go
to Na Hale O Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Did the Foundation set up that land trust, or that's still in the
works?
MS. GOODFELLOW; So, so we don't, we are already a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. And because
this would be for the benefit of the hospital, which is what our mission is, we can hold
those lots as part of our current 501 (c)(3). We don't have to have a separate land trust.
The concept would be that we would actually pay Na Hale O Maui, if they accept the
job, to manage the lots on our behalf, to manage the homes and the lots on our behalf.
And it would also help create a revenue stream for Na Hale O Maui. The funds to pay
for it would come from the leasehold that the, the buyers would pay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I guess I don’t understand that answer so good. 1 also have a
501(c)(3), but I wouldn't endeavor to own land or just having a 501(c)(3) doesn't mean
that I would hold it in perpetuity without, you know, some sort of, kind of wording, or, or
some lawyer stuff.
MS. GOODFELLOW: So, so, 1 mean, my professional career was in the nonprofit sector, and
I would never try to take on a mission that was not aligned with the mission of the
charitable intent of the organization. And so, this is well within the mission of the Maui
Health Foundation's mission. Our intention is purely to support the hospital and help
improve the hospital. And so, we would hold that land in perpetuity for care provider
housing. That would be the intention.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And I just, I don't know if you know the answer, but that
wording wasn't transmitted to us in the transmittal, like any kind of deed restriction or
anything. Do you have more documentation than what has been provided to the
Council, like more papers or anything?
MS. GOODFELLOW: Well, so, so all of the deeds and the deed restrictions would go with
each individual lot to the homeowners. And Cassandra, who is testifying after me from
Na Hale O Maui, is way more experienced in that .  .. than I am. But essentially, the
Maui Health Foundation is modeling our land deeds and everything, the lease
agreements with the landowners, I mean with the homebuyers, etc., after Na Hale O
Maui. And honestly, we would be thrilled if Na Hale O Maui wanted to have the land
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 45
lease on all of it as well. You know, we're not trying to make a land grab here, we're
trying to create housing for our care providers. That's what is our priority.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Awesome. Thank you so much for sharing the parts that you
do know about. And I'm excited to discuss more and iron it out. Looks like the way
that you’re saying, it is going to be. I'm supportive of that. Thank you.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Thank you. Appreciate that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And mahalo Ms. Goodfellow for your
testimony. So, you mentioned the phased process where Na Hale O Maui would first
do those lots along the golf course, I believe. So, my question is, those lots that flank
current residents on Kama /s/cj Street, you mentioned, those are still under County's--
MS. GOODFELLOW: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -ownership? Oh okay.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Correct. So, they would remain under the County ownership, so that
we could work with community to try to resolve some of those other issues around
those lots.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Alright. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Members, questions? If not, thank you very much, Tamar.
MS. GOODFELLOW: Thank you all for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Cassandra Abdul. To be
followed by Stan Franco.
MS. CASSANDRA ABDUL, NA HALE O MAUI (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-84 and
22-85):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 46
MS. ABDUL: Thank you for taking the time to listen to all the testimony from your constituents.
We really appreciate that. I am testifying on Resolution 22-84, and also on 22-85. The
first is the resolution for Na Hale O Maui to receive 17 house lots, plus two driveway
lots in the Fairways. And the second resolution is the 16 lots that would be deeded to
the Maui Health Foundation. And if you add those up, you come to those 33. So, I
think it's a little confusing because there are two separate resolutions, and each one
talks about the, the lots for each of the two nonprofits, the Foundation and Na Hale O
Maui.
You know, I don’t know anybody who hasn't been touched by our problem with
affordable housing. We've seen ourfamilies move away, ourfriends. I personally have
lost my youngest son and my granddaughter to Las Vegas, the ninth island, where so
many of our families have moved. She left Hawaii before she was three years old.
She's going to be seven in July. She does not even remember what it's like growing
up here. I can't hug her, I can't kiss her, I can't teach her hula or talk about our heritage,
it's heartbreaking. So personally, I know this, and I know this is repeated family after
family. I have boys that grew up at our house, hanai .They call me Mom, and they call
me Aunty, or they call me Gransy. They are ail going through that. And I know that
you all have family that have been touched by this, too. And this is why we have such
a sense of urgency in wanting to provide more affordable housing to our families.
The thing that's really incredible, and you've heard this from Justin, right, we sell at
below market prices. That immediately lowers the cost of living for a household,
because housing is one of the biggest costs that they have. Our households are
spending more than 50 percent of their incomes sometimes on rents. And so, you
know, if you can get a house and have it belong to you, and pay less in mortgage, real
property taxes, insurance than it costs to rent the same sized home, that gives you the
ability to manage other expenses that you have, medical expenses. And you can save
for retirement, you can save for your children's education. All of these things work into
this.
I did want to point out that under the IRS, a nonprofit, Na Hale O Maui was granted the
ability to work with affordable housing and workforce housing up to 140 percent of the
area median income. The IRS agreed to this because of the high cost of housing and,
again, the high cost of living. So, we really are asking you for your support, so we can
move forward expeditiously to start working on providing additional housing for our
families here on Maui.
As far as the, the next Resolution 22-85, with the Maui Health Foundation, I wanted to
tell you two stories. The first one is why I'm here at Na Hale 0 Maui. The previous
executive director, John Anderson, his wife had a life-threatening medical condition.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 47
There was no physician here on Maui that could help her. She was, you know, airlifted
to Oahu and they helped to stabilize her. But there is no doctor on Maui that deals with
this type of issue. And the doctors would only be able to come to Maui maybe once a
month. What do you do in an emergency? They unfortunately left Maui and moved to
Washington State, and they are within 20 minutes of a hospital that has all of the help
that they need.
The second story I want to tell you is a really good story, and this concerns my family
again. My oldest boy came down with Guillain-Barre Syndrome, GBS. And apparently
it is a auto-immune disease where your nerves attack each other. And it was a result
of an infection that he had, not as a result of the vaccination he received for COVID.
Thank goodness Maui Medical, the hospital, everybody there was absolutely
wonderful. The doctors, the nurses, the aides, every single person that we touched
there in the hospital made a real difference in his recovery. And today, it's almost
miraculous the level that he has recovered to. It makes us understand, really on a
personal level, how important medical services are.
You know, right now, if you live in, in Molokai or Lanai and you want a doctor in
attendance during birth, if you are having, starting your family, you either have to come
to Maui or go to Oahu. And you need, if you are concerned that you potentially might
need neonatal, you know, help with experts there, you can't stay on our islands either.
I mean, it’s so critical to get the doctors here. And it's not just doctors, It's everybody
that supports those doctors, including the administrators, and nurses, and everybody
that I've talked about. The doctors will be helped by . . . resolution that's before you.
But Na Hale O Maui can help with some of the others that fall below 140 percent of
AMI. We need help-
CHAIR LEE: Cassandra, can you please conclude?
MS. ABDUL: Yes, I am. We can help nurses and anyone else that would fall into the
workforce category that we oversee, including not just them but, you know, Fire, Police,
County workers, I mean, our workforce. And that's what we do. And that's why we are
asking for your support in moving forward with the resolutions. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Member Paltin and then Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify, based on the
previous testifier. So, 17 lots would go to Na Hale under 140 percent AMI. And then,
16 would go to Maui Health, and those can be, those would be over 140 for, like, maybe
surgeons or nurses, or something like that. And the 17 that Na Hale O Maui is having.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 48
not the roadway lots, were those restricted to the medical health profession, or to just
anybody like your current model?
MS. ABDUL: The 17 lots that would come to Na Hale  OMaui would follow our program,
existing program. There are some medical personnel that would fall into the same
income category, so they could be helped.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. They would just go in the queue with everyone else.
MS. ABDUL: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And then, I think the previous testifier said that they
might approach you to manage the other 16. Is that a possibility to keep it in like a land
trust model? But you wouldn't be the owner, because your mission is 140 percent AMI
and below. But you could manage additional lots, like 16 additional lots with a similar
type of model?
MS. ABDUL: Yes. We are continuing in discussion. From my experience and my viewpoint,
an additional 16 properties to manage is not significant. However, we are continuing
to discuss it, and we're going to see what works best for both organizations.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And so, you don't have the paperwork together yet, but you're
going to keep us informed as it moves along?
MS. ABDUL: Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. And would this also work if it wasn't the hospital, and it
was another entity holding land that you could manage as a land trust? Or we're not
there yet?
MS. ABDUL: No, because normally for a land trust, you know, we own the property. In our
title, we keep it in trust, and that's how we provide the affordability in perpetuity. So,
this is a special, this is another nonprofit, it's a Foundation, it makes sense. And again,
we are in discussions. We have not fully resolved how this would work. And I do take
it to my board for their final approval, which I don't expect to be any kind of an issue.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, do you think that that could be a model moving forward
where you partner with other nonprofits, and hold the management capability of lands
so that, you know, they don't continually flip out of affordability? Like, I mean, I really
like that whole land trust shared equity set up. And, and I'd love to see it expand, like,
faster than you can build houses. And so, I just was wondering if we got other
nonprofits doing it, if you could manage it for them?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 49
MS. ABDUL; That's certainly food for thought. And  Ilove the idea of expanding faster than
we can build houses. You know, this is almost going to be a demonstration kind of a
project, because this will tell us, both for the Foundation and Na Halo O Maui, how well
the concept works. And, you know, we're open to all kinds of things, and we support
all affordable housing and workforce housing initiatives. So, I can't really make any
commitments at this point, but yes, it's a very interesting concept. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah, yeah, exciting. Keep us posted.
MS. ABDUL; We will absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Abdul.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair, you're muted. Chair. And just a reminder
about clarifying questions, yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Urn, thank you. The, the thing with clarifying questions, though, Vice-Chair, is
that on, on days like this where there aren't that many testifiers, I tend to give the
Members a little bit more latitude, because there's a little bit more time. We, we did
spend a lot of time talking about limu earlier, you know what I mean? So, I have to, I
have to give everybody a chance. And so, that's the reason why I haven't clamped
down on the questioning, you know? But honestly, if we were on a, if we had tons of
testifiers and we were behind schedule, yeah, I,  Iwould try hard to keep everybody on
track.
And so, I, I'm, I appreciate you bringing up the point, but I've already given people the
latitude to talk about, to wander off the subject  alittle bit. And if it, if they got too far, I
would try and rein them in. But today was, you know, is kind of a special day, where
we're taking about love and everybody praying for one another and so forth. So, that's
the reason why. That's the reason why I haven't been so strict about it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, Chair, we're going to be doing Committee work
during public testimony?
CHAIR LEE; No, we're not.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Cause that's kind of what it sounds like we're doing.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. We're moving on now. We're moving on.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 50
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. So, I, I really appreciate your
testimony and, and the clarification. And I appreciate the opportunity to tie Tamar
Goodfellow testimony with what, you know, what you do at Na Hale. And I can tell that
there's more that we need to, you know, explore as we go along. But the reason why
I wanted to ask you for the, the homes that are, that is being proposed to build is in a
community. So, I'm just wondering, as part your Na Hale process, will you be doing
community outreach? Chair, I hope you will let me ask that question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thanks.
MS. ABDUL: Yes. In fact, we have already had a dialogue with one of the homeowners there.
I met her at the subdivision, and we spent about an hour, and including about 15 or
20 minutes on the phone prior to that, to hear what their concerns are. And, you know,
as a nonprofit, Maui is our community. And we want to work well with all of our
community. So, we are going to continue to dialogue with them.
And this was also the reason that the phasing was done. Because we can take that,
the portion that is the real issue with the tall wall and the detention basin, that's not
going to be touched until we work with the community and everybody involved, and we
can come up with a resolution. Hopefully, I know that, you know, when you, it's not
always what everybody absolutely wants. There's some compromise. But we believe
that we can be involved in the discussion, and hope that we come up with a resolution
that will be acceptable to the community.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Did she answer your question. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Then 1 saw, I believe. Member Pro Temp Kama's hand.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Abdul.
And thank you for mentioning the, the retention basin and the wall, and those issues
that need to be mitigated before, you know, and put it on the side, so we can save it
for affordable housing. So, my question is, in your dialogue and in your process, as
you had told Member Sugimura, that you will be reaching out to the neighbors. But my
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 51
concern is, in your discussion, are you going to be able to address the homeowner
association fees that come with these lots?
MS. ABDUL; Okay, I'm not, I'm not real clear. So, the lots that we are trying to build houses
are, are part of Maui Lani, are subject to the HOA fees.
CHAIR LEE: Cassandra. Cassandra, can 1 stop you right there? If you're not sure about the
homeowner fees, don't try and answer it. Just say you don't know. Okay?
MS. ABDUL: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.
MS. ABDUL: Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama, you have any other questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, Chair, that was it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, no questions for Ms. Abdul. But if she could send in
her, or what she mentioned about phasing, if she had a map of... ? Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, great.
MS. ABDUL; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Any further questions. Members? Alright, thank you very much. Thank you.
Mr. Clerk.
MS. ABDUL; Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 52
CHAIR LEE: Moving right along.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testify is Lucienne de Naie. To be
followed by Dick Mayer.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE ftestifvina on Committee Report Nos. 22-23. 22-24. 22-25 and
22-26: Resolution Nos. 22-77, 22-84 and 22-85: and Bill No. 51 (2022)1:
Good morning, everyone. Nice to see you all. And nice to hear all the prayers from
Molokai. What a great way to start our morning, to know that our hardworking Council
people are in the, the prayers of many, many citizens. I’m sure it's not just Molokai as
well. You definitely are doing the Lord's work here.
I'm testifying on a number of items today as a private citizen. I’m going to start out with
Council Resolution [sic] 22-23. This is giving more flexibility with our Affordable
Housing Funds. I think this has been well-debated and it is definitely something, we
need to have this flexibility. So, just testifying in strong support.
Moving onto Council Resolution [sic] 22-24, sending the ordinance creating cultural
overlay districts to the different planning commissions. This is something we've long
needed. It was actually proposed, shoots, back over 20 years ago, I believe, by the
then Chair of the Cultural Resources Commission, Dorothy Pyle. And it is something
that could make it easier to know areas that have, you know, red flags in terms of
cultural impacts, and areas that don't, so that we can feel more clear steps ahead for
developments that are proposed in these areas that do not have the concentration of
cultural use. So, thank you for sending that forward.
. . . just like to make a comment on number 15 in that resolution. That is having to do
with appointments to the Maui Planning Commission. You know, I, I testify at the
Planning Commission not infrequently, and 1 have to say, you know, you should really,
really get out of planning commissioners whether they have the time to read all of the
materials that they are given because it’s a very heavy workload. I have been a
planning commissioner. I know from firsthand experience what a workload it is. And I
served on the General Plan Advisory Committee, and our reading load was huge. And
it was obvious that some members never had time to get around to it, and others did.
And when you have people making important decisions, you really want people who
are going to put in the time.
I, I am glad that the decision was made to create  aplace for a new person on the
planning commission, ratherthan reappoint someone who has been serving. 1 do know
that there are interested people that do apply. I think you folks never get them sent
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 53
down to you, and that is something where the situation should be addressed. And I'll
speak to that in the, the next section.
That's a good, a good segway to Resolution [sic] 20, excuse me, 22-26, the County
Charter provisions. You know, these provisions, I can really see why the board, the
Charter Commission had such a difficult time. There were a lot of good ideas. But the
few things I'm very, very disappointed that we do not have some transitional path to
regional planning commissions. I think one of the reasons it's hard to find people to
serve on our current planning commission is that their workload is all of Maui Island,
And it's tremendous. It really would make sense to have a more regional approach. If
they're not going to be, you know, six separate planning commissions, have them be
three, so that at least every planning commissioner does not have to review tons of
documents from areas where they may have no expertise. This didn't pass.
But the very least that could happen is provision 10, to have an independent board to
review people. We had this. I don't know if folks realized this. We had a blue-ribbon
commission back at the first term of Mayor Arakawa in 2000, uh, 2002, something like
that, and it worked very well. And we actually had a lot of excellent people recruited,
and fewer people quitting because there was a more thorough vetting process.
And we really have a preponderance of people on the planning commission right now
who are beholden to construction in, interests. Either they are realtors who sell
construction projects, or they're affiliated with construction unions. Certainly, there
should be some representation, but not a preponderance. And we have very, very few
people who are ever appointed, who are just looking out for the commonsense
protection of our environment that's going to help us all. So, we do need some change.
The ‘Oiwi proposition is a great one. We're in Hawaii. We, we actually need that
component. And certainly, having a separate housing department makes sense.
And I want to speak to the respect shown to candidates. I have to say, one of my
friends, Lance Holter, was appointed to the Board of Variances and Appeals. He was
castigated by the Councilmembers, and he stood his ground. He was successfully
appointed. His was castigated because he would be prejudice, because he was an
officer of an environmental organization. What a terrible thing. You could be a paid
staff person for a union, a construction union and get appointed to a board and
commission. But to be a volunteer for an environmental organization, no, he ended up
to go on to be the Chair and achieve the acclaim of all... So, even if people ask some
tough questions, the right candidates will stick it out and give their service to these
commissions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 54
I'd like to move onto a couple more items. Resolution 22-77, the zero waste initiative.
This is a great discussion to get started. Obviously, this is a very utopian ideal. But
there are many communities that have found ways to reduce waste. As an island
community, we should be looking at having a, a robust plan that we're implementing
step-by-step, a little here and a little there and just see what we can do.
And then, the big ones. Resolution 22-84 and 22-85, having to do with the Fairway lots,
the Sandhills area. I personally strongly support these lots being used for affordable
housing. I don't know why this didn't happen years ago. I personally have testified
about this and testified on behalf of Face Maui and other organizations that this is what
needs to happen with these lots. However, I am very glad to hear that the lots that
were improperly filled and are really problematic to the existing residents are going to
be off the table. And the Fairway lots would be, you know, phased in first, and so, we
can get something happening.
But it's really, really, really important that we listen to the people who live along Palama
Drive, who watched, really the desecration of a, basically, a natural ecosystem happen
during the construction phase of these Fain/vay lots that was permitted by the County.
That resulted in all of these lawsuits. So, we need to do something to make that right
as well. But it doesn't affect the whole parcel.
We do need housing for our nurses. But it's just  agreat object lesson that we should
be looking at the whole picture as part of our affordable housing, it is so sad to see
our Planning Commission approve affordable housing developments in a floodplain,
next to toxic agricultural fields. It is just not where we should be heading. But this
project deserves to go forward. It should have some Committee review to make sure
that the t's are crossed, and the i's are dotted.
And then, lastly. Bill 51. I just noticed it was on the agenda about repairs along the
Okolani Street Culvert. Those of you who are not familiar with South Maui, you just
go, oh yeah, sure, Public Works, we need to do this. But Okolani Street is a very
culturally important area. There is a site running right along that major gulch. And all
these drainage pipes are tunneled into this natural gulch that comes out along the, the
shoreline between Keawakapu and basically Mokapu Beach.
And there are petroglyphs, cave systems, there were dozens of related archaeological
sites before they were allowed to be blasted by dynamite last year. The last thing we
want to do is repair our drainage system to cause more impacts on that culturally
important gulch. So, 1, you know, I know this is probably a simple funding matter, but
head's up, this is a place that's not just another gulch to dump a lot of water into. Thank
you for listening to my mana'o. And thank you for all your hard work on your busy
agendas.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 55
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lucienne.
Member Paltin and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. de Naie for your testimony
on all of those items. I just was wondering, you know, when you brought up the case
that you were mentioning Lance Holter. it brought to mind when you were actually
appointed to the Board of Water Supply, and I thought you were treated really
disrespectful by the former South Maui Councilmember. And I just was wondering if,
if you did feel that way?
MS. DE NAIE: Well, it is a shame that people, who no money, volunteer their time, and have
no vested interest are not, you know, retired from some business that's going to profit
by a decision of a board, are considered suspect, such as myself. And, and people
who have called for accountability of some of these boards and commissions. And you
know, but that did not deter me. I did need to resign, because I needed to take some
contracts, as a, as a researcher. And they could have presented a conflict of interest.
I, you know, consulted with a couple people I knew who had legal background, and
they said, well, it could be seen as that. So, I stepped down. I needed to do a lot of
major dental work and I needed some money. So, social security wasn't going to do
that.
And these contracts were water research, you know. And so, I did the ethical thing
and said, you know, right now I couldn't serve. It's possible that in the future that I
could. But I had to step down. But it wasn't because of a, of the Councilmember's very
pointed questions. I just wish that those with a vested interest in industry and, and
other related things in tourism would also be asked the hard questions, you know. So,
thanks for asking.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, I'm, I'm sorry about that. I kind of remember, it was real
hurtful.
MS. DE NAIE: Well, it was very kind that the Councilmember from my district did stand up for
me and really spoke, I think, diplomatic words that helped move the situation forward.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you, Ms. de Naie.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks for being here again, Lucienne, and
yeah sorry about what happened previously. It's funny that you have, you had that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 56
reaction as a conflict of interest, and yet we haven't, we get complaints when we ask
people if they have a conflict of interest with the construction and our development
industries. But I wanted to go back to a comment that you made about maybe even
just having three planning commissions. You're talking about three on Maui. Because
we have three right now.
MS. DE NAIE: Yes. .. . Exactly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, . . . was like, you know, we, we need some more of that, you
know. So, we're still, we're at the point where we do have a couple more advisory
committees, but I don't know that they, they're not active yet. We're waiting for them
to actually be--
MS. DE NAIE: No. No one has set up any meeting schedule or anything. No, I understand
that, you know, the Planning Commission, or the Planning staff is overwhelmed right
now, and that they've had several key people leave. And I, I don't envy anyone who,
you know, tries to work at the Planning Department right now, because, you know,
construction is going crazy. It's not what you hear at the Planning Commission. All
those people are sitting on the benches. But I don't know if you've tried to find a
carpenter or contractor, it's hard, you know? So, but the story doesn't change. And all
of our planning commissioners nod their head and go yeah, we need to approve this
luxury development. We'll be short otherwise. Pardon me. I'm on my soap, soapbox
here, but--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I just wanted to clarify that, because, because, yeah, we're
still waiting for, because we still don't have any input until those, those, at least those
advisory committees start meeting. But I, I, I think you're pretty much tracking the one
in your area and I, so you guys have not been meeting either.
MS. DE NAIE: No, not at all.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Anyway, thank you. Thank you again for your advocacy.
And yes. I've been disappointed, and I agree with you on the Blue Ribbon Committee,
because I did serve on that Committee and I thought we were very progressive and we
got a lot of stuff done for, for boards and commissions.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 57
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. de Naie. Mahalo for your
testimony today. I just wanted to clarify the example that you used earlier, Mr. Lance
Holten?
MS. DE NAIE: Holter.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Holter. Sorry, sorry. That was a previous Council?
I don't remember.
MS. DE NAIE: Oh, this is. this is way back, you know, 15 years ago or so. Yeah, 10,15 years
ago. And he was just grilled, you know. And, in fact, people intimated that how could
he be fair? I mean, this man holds a contractor's license and was a realtor, but because
he was President of the Sierra Club, how could he possibly be fair on the Board of
Variances and Appeal? And he turned out to just give outstanding service and was
praised by staff and his fellow commissioners alike. So, you know, goes to show. But
he barely got appointed.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ah. I see. 1 see. Mahalo for that clarify, clarification
because I don't remember his name coming before us.
MS. DE NAIE: No, it wasn't on your guys'watch. No, no, no.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And the Chamber of Commerce didn't come out and
to, to defend him at that time?
MS. DE NAIE: No, they didn't. Strangely enough, they did not, you know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Mahalo. Ms. de Naie. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you so much for your testimony.
Have a great weekend.
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Dick
Mayer. To be followed by Kelly Kauwenaloe.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 58
MR. DICK MAYER. KULA COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-26):
Good morning, Councilmembers. I come to you with  adifferent message than I usually
do. Usually, I'm making recommendations, tweak this and tweak this to make things a
little bit better. In this case, I'm coming representing the Kula Community Association,
with regard to Charter Commission Proposal No. 6 concerning the Maui Planning
Commission.
Kula Community Association Board greatly resents the Committee’s discriminatory
recommendation to limit the ability of the Upcountry area to make plans for the future
of Maui Island and Maui County. We ask that the wording of Proposal 6 be changed
by eliminating any reference that discriminates against any district which does not have
a coastline. And in this respect, Chamber of Commerce leader Pam Tumpap and I
very much agree. It's not often that we do, but this one, we both agree that that is
discriminatory against Upcountry.
SMA actions are only one of the many decisions that planning commissioners make.
The commission advises the Council on all land use ordinances. They review
community plans, Maui Island Plan, the Countywide Policy Plan, zoning changes. State
land use changes in areas under 15-acres. They approve environmental documents.
They decide on project districts, hold public hearings and many other matters. SMA is
only a small part of their responsibilities.
We ask you to reverse your Committee, Committee's decision in Section 8-8.4 Planning
Commissions, using the following language. And 1 quote now, "The nine members
must include at least one member to one, and no more than two members who reside
in each Council residency area on the Island of Maui". Stop right there, leave out the
last part which says, "except that when there is, there are two members from a Council
residency area, at least one of the members must reside in the special management
area." That is discriminatory and leaves, makes sure that never will Upcountry have
two members on that commission. I would remind the, the Council that the Maui
Planning Commission would still always have seven members, at least minimum who
do live in coastal communities.
Population of the Upcountry district is larger than many other districts which already
have a planning commission or a district advisory committee. Molokai, Lanai, South
Maui has an advisory, Hana has an advisory. North Maui now has an advisory
committee, but Upcountry has no such thing. And they are restricted to one member
on the planning commission. Popu, the proposal sets a dangerous precedent that
could be applied in the future to any other County district. The smaller and less
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 59
populated Molokai and Lanai district already have multiple planning commissioners.
East Maui district and Haiku-Paia district have seven members on a planning advisory
committee, plus perhaps two planning commissioners that would be on the planning
commission.
So, consequently, I would ask you to please eliminate the last part of that sentence.
I'd like to have an extra minute please, just to finish up.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, go ahead.
MR. MAYER: Delete the words "except that when there are two members from a Council
residency area, at least one of the members must reside in the special management
area". And I understand that OCS has ruled that you can make amendments to this
resolution, unlike statements that were made earlier in the meeting, which said that you
have to go yes or no on the whole thing. So, please at least if this, if you ignore the
changes in this Charter proposal, please delete those last words that discriminate
against Upcountry.
And as the thing I sent to many of you, you will note the number of voters in the
Upcountry area is perhaps the largest of all the areas on the island. And I think we will
all take offense if this is not changed. Thank you. And I'm sorry to sound so angry,
but this is something that I feel very strongly about.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Dick. Questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Dick, for speaking up for
the community association. I have to tell you that they put this on their agenda to talk
about it. So, he does speak with the, with the force and effect of the KCA, community
association, Kula Community Association. Thank you. Thank you, Dick.
MR. MAYER: It was unanimously voted that this message be sent to the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any more questions? If not, thank you very much. Dick.
Have a great weekend.
MR. MAYER: Thank you. You all, too.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, how many more testifiers do we have?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's currently six individuals remaining to testify.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next individual signed up to testify is Kelly Kauwenaole. To
be followed by Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Kauwenaole?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Ms. Kauwenaole, we see that you are unmuted, but we're not
hearing anything on our end.
MS. KELLY KAUWENAOLE (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-26):
How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KAUWENAOLE: Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Got you.
MS. KAUWENAOLE: Aloha. My name is Kelly Kauwenaole. I'm here in opposition of Charter
amend No.1, the district voting not to be sent to the ballot. And in support of Proposal 8
to create, to create the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources. And Proposal 6 including
Kalaupapa as County of Maui. Mahalo. And Mr. Molina, that was a very beautiful
opening you had this morning. Mahalo and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you very much. Members, questions? If not, thank you so much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next person signed up to testify is Faith Chase. To be
followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four
digits 4428.
MS. FAITH CHASE [testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-73 and 22-77, and Bill No. 147, FD1
(2021)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee. Aloha Council. I feel like I want to gift you guys an Aloha
Friday short testimony. And I think I can sum it up by strongly supporting the testimony
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 61
of Lucienne de Naie and Dick Mayer, particularly the Proposal 6, the good points made
about not discriminating. You know, there's contradicting language in other parts of
this agenda where you support ahupua'a thinking. When you support ahupua'a
methodology, it, you're talking about the coastline. So, excuse me, the phone is
ringing. So, in that, be conscious that, that ahupua'a thinking considers coastline
considerations.
I am, 1 am really happy to see number 77. I actually believe a lot of our problems are,
can be tucked under this zero waste. Oh, I, I'm on the testimony. No. Oh, yeah, it is.
Sorry guys, my secretary. This zero waste, thank you, Yuki Sugimura, for putting this
forward. You know. New Zealand weighs their trash. That's what we need to do. One
of the drastic measures I was ready to take is to suggest that the tipping fee, or the
trash pickup is $600, just to freak people out, so that they will start to be conscientious,
you know?
If we get something like that to hit the headline of the Maui snooze, I mean, Maui News,
you know, we can actually. I'm sorry, they have an employee newsletter called "The
Snooze". I didn't mean to trash the Maui News. That would be . . .
And the water issues and the way we're dealing with, I heard the whole R-1, R-2
conversation the other day. Water is terribly, exactly related, laterally related to waste
issues. You're going to need water to deal with whatever it ends up being, anaerobic
or whatever. So, I'm really happy to see this, 77. I know that you guys have gotten my
emails, whether you consider them spam or not.
I'm in my fifth year of doing a resource recovery Maui event. I've got amazing speakers
coming, because I was stalled to just do like a film festival the last two years because
of COVID. But Travis Liggett was, was one of my speakers. He was your resource
the other day. Kelly King, you know, Councilmember Kelly King was one of my
speakers. The former Councilmember Alika Atay was one of my speakers. So, I, I, I
encourage you to pay attention as this event rolls forward. And 1 will definitely tuck this
zero waste progress into that.
Number 147, I don't know what FD1 stands for, forgive me. But the digital mapping, I,
that, this is very, very, very important. This is very important for the government
interactions and decisions that we're making now, but it's also particularly important not
to raise any alarms. But this is going to be very important when people try to find their
bearings when they're looking at their kuleana lands, or their land commission awards,
you know. It already has been beneficial.
I'm not sure why Kahoolawe is always sort of like the forgotten island. But I would like
them to be, I would like them to be more, or the Protect Kahoolawe Ghana, I'd like them
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 62
to be more proactive. I don't know why every time Kahoolawe is not considered. I
would like to see a digital, I mean, I don't understand number C, what it means, maybe
I'm wrong. But moving forward, let's try and consider Kahoolawe in a different space.
It deserves remediation. I am very close to the island. My ex-husband was a bomb
technician there. I, I know the place as they reference it in grids, and we shouldn't
forget that island. So, there's my promised short testimony. Have a good weekend.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions? If not, thank you.
Oh, Member King. Faith, can you come back?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Sorry, just real quick. So, Faith, thank you for your support of
zero waste. I think we've done other resolutions about zero waste, but the idea of
doing a master plan is really interesting. Would you, would you consider yourself
somebody who would participate in helping to to put that master plan together?
MS. CHASE; I would love that. I mean, when I, I knocked on the County's doors about trash
and, and solutions, it was during two Administrations ago and we had that entire
Anaergia debacle. And some people thought I sold my soul to the devil by going to get
a job. But everybody kept pointing their fingers and so I asked Anaergia to hire me as
a consultant then. And, you know, ultimately, that fell through, and that's fine.
Anaerobic digestion is not right for our island. But I've been trying to pay attention and,
and be in the center of the conversation. I've gone through three different
Environmental Management Directors, and I think,  Ithink Nakagawa is actually, you
know, he is the, so far, he is actually very engaging compared to all my experiences
before. So, I'm hopeful. Thank you for asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you. Faith, and have a great
weekend, too.
MS. CHASE; A hui hou.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testify is the individual calling in
from the phone number ending with these last four digits 4428. To be followed by the
person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 2963. Right
now, it's 4428.
4428 just left the call. Then, the next individual up to testify is the individual calling in
from 2963.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 63
CHAIR LEE: Next.
MS. ANNETTE HEU (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-84 and 22-85):
Hello?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, oh, I heard a voice.
MS. HEU: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Hello?
MS. HEU: Hello? Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Could you state your name for the record, please?
MS. HEU: Hi. Aloha everyone. I would like to state my name for the record. And my name
is Annette L. Heu, and I am calling from Palama Drive. First, before I begin my
testimony, I would like to mention one item, and that is the last time i came to the
Council to testify, Counciimember Lee pointed out that our neighborhood settled with
the County. And I would like to make it very clear, very clear, the settlement with the
County included Mr. Medeiros of Sandhills, Dwight Nacua of Sandhills, Tony Gallo of
Maui Lani, and Hiram Heu of Palama Drive. It did not include Annette Heu, homeowner
of Palama Drive. So, Ms. Lee, let's just make that very clear that Annette Heu did not
settle with the County. Lance Collins was my attorney, and I have asked on numerous
occasions, advisor, I should say. And I have asked on numerous occasions for the
County to speak to Lance Collins in regards to the illegality of the subdivision you hope
to pass on as an affordable housing project. I would like to begin my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed.
MS. HEU: I'm very glad that Dick Mayer has brought in the word "discrimination", because I
do feel that our neighborhood is being discriminated against in not being represented
as far as community, health, and safety issues. Also, the traffic issues that we suffer
daily, because Maui Lani uses our neighborhood as an access point. There is no
streetlights up on Kea and Papa Avenue. By awarding these lots, you will be allowing
another 100 cars, and the construction that comes with the subdivision, through our
neighborhood of aging infrastructure.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 64
Mayor Victorino well knows how many times the pipes collapsed with all of the trucks
coming in to bring the mill mud fill, because I contacted him every other week to let him
know that the pipe system is failing, and we had County crews come here on numerous
occasions having to fix the water lines. At one point, they even nicked the sewer line,
which parts of the clay pipe was thrown into the second lawsuit plaintiffs yard and, and
still is there. So, they broke the sewer line, nobody made any attempts to fix that. And
I realize I have just another minute.
But I also wanted to let everyone know I am not against affordable housing, nor, nor is
anyone in our entire neighborhood. What we are against is going forward with such a
detrimental project, and allowing certain people to benefit, while others suffer.
Discrimination. So, hooray for affordable housing, which gas is almost at $5.50 a gallon
and the world is at war and you guys promising affordable housing in perpetuity.
Also, for the people who are going to live there and be graciously accommodated by
Maui Lani, I would like to ask why Maui Lani has never enforced their own policy about
maintaining property? Because this property is a part of Maui Lani, according to
everybody. That's why we have no power. Yet, Maui Lani, by their own ... has never
put forth any effort to fix that wall, or the part of the subdivision that they need to bring
their affordable housing here. So, those are just all of my questions that I wish to have
on the record. And everyone can say they're consulting with us. They consult with us
to hear what they want to hear, just like Sandy Baz.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Thank you very much for your testimony.
MS. HEU: . . . that conversation.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. We have two people with their hands up. Member Paltin
then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Heu, for your testimony. I
just was wheezing, reading the transmittal. And it says the County developed a phased
approach for the 55 lots owned in the Fairways at Maui Lani and continues to maintain
the lots and large retaining wall, which concern adjacent Palama Drive residents. The
phased approach will provide an opportunity to work with the adjacent residents'
concerns in the future. So, just clarifying that your concern, if they even just take the
more, the lots across the street from the retaining wall lots?
MS. HEU: Thank you for your question. My answer to that would be, and as I have, I have
awarded to Ms., to Cassandra, the lots opposite the retention basin were filled on a
pond that was existing. So, like the lots on Palama Drive side, if this subdivision had
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 65
been sold, you would be looking at homeowners who would be dealing with all of the
problems on the retention basin side. Who would help them, okay? So, on the opposite
side, they filled in a very, very large green pond. So, if the lots were filled with 8-feet
of fill to avoid desecrating any more graves, what are they going to do when they begin
to do the groundwork, and they find problems with these lots? And that is my concern
on moving forward with the pretty picture of affordable housing.
Not to mention Palama Drive area, and you ask any person who deals with pests, is
the grandfathers of all the ground termite colonies in Kahului. So, note that, also, okay?
So, all your pipes and whatever, when the ground termite colonies make their way into
those pipes, and clog your infrastructure, I like know what you guys going do. Or add
that on to the requirements of people in perpetuity, who are going to be granted these
lots for 100 years, that they will be signing for something for their kids. And ask them
how accountable the County was to them when the problems arise.
That's my question from Palama Drive, and that's my answer on the lots that they feel
they can utilize. How are they going to utilize those lots without utilizing what is on,
what is on this detention as, as Councilmember Kama called it, the detention basin?
How are they going to use the, the system that they need to develop their houses when
the system is salty? So, this is backwards.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, did she answer your question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I think it's, she still has  aproblem with the backside, is that
that's correct, Ms. Heu?
MS. HEU: Yes. I do.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
MS. HEU: Well, I, I, I mean, I think that the people who going to live on there should, because
that's on a pond.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
MS. HEU: A big green pond that they filled.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Ms. Heu, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 66
MS. HEU: And everybody knows that that pond was used for the drainage of our, of our, our
street in times of flood. The County has all of those records.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you. Now, we have another question. Who, who had the other
question?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Heu. Mahalo for your
testimony today. So, what, what I'm hearing is you would prefer that the Council not
take action today, because there are so many outstanding questions that need to be
resolved, and won't be resolved today, because it should be taken to Committee. Is
that, is that what you’re saying?
MS. HEU: Yes, Keani. I, I, I thank you for your assistance. And I hope that people can take
the time to, to, to really realize what they're saying, cause affordable housing sounds
wonderful. Housing for the doctors and the nurses sounds wonderful. But is it going
to be on the backs of us?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Heu. And the, so, I, I walked the area,
and I, I've seen with my own eyes, you know, the, the, a lot of problems that you've
described in your testimony. Has the County removed the flying debris from the fence,
and the, the crumbling retaining wall, and all of that. Has, has the County addressed
that?
MS. HEU: The fences are still up on, on our side. There's no fencing on the Palama Drive
side. That would be, my question is if Maui Lani has, has authority over our
neighborhood, how the County has gotten away with not maintaining, and maintaining
means fully operational.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. And-
MS. HEU: And this subdivision is not fully operation. So, yes, I appreciate that there are
concerns. But I'm getting kind of tired of people saying they checked the box on
Palama Drive. That's what they did at the meeting at Velma Santos Center. And then,
it was furthered by saying that we settled, which was an insult.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Heu. And the, the preschool that
operates on Palama Drive and, and the water with sewage that gets mixed in, making
it a hazardous area for the children that live and play, and the preschool that operates
there, has that concern been addressed?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 67
MS. HEU: No. Not at all. So, I, I, that's where my concern is. You know, we going get
addressed after they get their affordable housing.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Ms. Heu. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore? Oh, by the way, Ms. Heu, I attended the meeting at the Velma
Santos' Community Center. And I think you might be confusing me with somebody
else, cause I, I was in the audience. I didn't speak.
But, Member Johnson-
MS. HEU: You spoke at the Council meeting the next, the next, after the next day when
Sandy Baz presented the presentation he presented about Palama Drive, saying that
the County had already responded. And that whole presentation where they put me
with my displays in front of the picture of Michelle Anderson, that crew that he said
came in belonged to Tom's Backhoe service, not the County crew. And that's the day
that we appeared in Council. There was no one else to testify, just me, when I left with
my hands shaking and crying.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, we just have
MS. HEU: Because I was being bullied by the Council
CHAIR LEE: We different recollections. We have different recollections, okay.
MS. HEU: Okay. You have it on tape.
CHAIR LEE: So, somebody else has a question for you. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Good afternoon, Ms. Heu. I really
appreciate your testimony. Like you, I support affordable housing, especially as the
Affordable Housing Chair. But I would encourage that this, this even go to Committee,
so that we would have your community's input. Do you, if it goes to Committee, will
you be willing to testify when it, when we, when that comes up in Committee?
MS. HEU: I have no problem testifying. My problem is moving forward, just to get affordable
housing, without taking care. Because in my experience with the County, they can say
whatever they want to say to get what they want, and then you're left by the roadside.
That's my concern. That the people of Palama Drive will be discriminated against and
left at the roadside until everybody gets what they want, which is affordable housing in
perpetuity.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 68
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I, I too, appreciate your concerns. You know, I don't want
that to happen. I want everybody at the table. So, I think this would be a path forward
is that we have, have it go to Committee so that we can have these meetings and have
it discussed, because there's still these unresolve issues. I agree with you, so thank
you so much for your testimony. Thank you. Chair.  Ihave no further questions.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Heu.
MS. HEU: Ms. Lee, I would like to say thank you to you also, for your efforts. And I would
like to ask that Hawaii pray for the people in Ukraine, and for our country.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. HEU; And that we support each other as much as we can, because we cannot forget
who we are as the people of Hawaii. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And we totally agree with you. Thank you very much. Members
no more questions.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual signed up to testify is Stan Franco. To
be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last
four digits 9908.
MR. STAN FRANCO. STAND UP MAUI (testifying on Committee Report 22-26 and
Resolution Nos. 22-84 & 22-85):
Hi. Good afternoon. Stan Franco with Stand Up Maui. Wanted to talk about, basically.
I'm going to be very short. Your CR 22-26 on the Charter amendment for the splitting
up of the Housing and Human Concerns Department into a separate Department of
Housing, we are strongly in favor of that reso. Charter amendment.
And on Resolution 22-84 and 22-85, the lots that are going to Na Hale and to the Maui
Health Foundation, we have been talking about this in Stand Up Maui and Face Maui
for years about using those lots. But after your last presenter, I think, you know, one
of the things that Stand Up Maui has been for is decent, affordable, sanitary housing.
And you know, just for those, when we build affordable housing, it should not be in
areas that will cause problems for people. We need to take care of the needs of all
people that are living in that area. So, please carefully consider the testimony that was
given. But as an organization and as stand for affordable housing for many years, we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 69
will like to see those lots used, but only in a way that would not impact adversely the
people that are on Palama Drive or the area. So. thank you very much. Have a good
day and allowing me to speak a few words is great. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Stan. Have a great weekend.
MR. FRANCO; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is the
individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 9908. To
be followed by the individual calling in from the phone number ending with these last
four digits 9385.
CHAIR LEE; Are they the last two or three?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, after those two individuals, there are two other people
signed up to testify. If there's anybody else in the meeting who wishes to testify and
has not signed up yet, please let us know in the meeting chat. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Call the next one please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: 9908, you're, you're unmuted. Would you like to testify?
ANONYMOUS (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-84 and 22-85):
Yes. Thank you. Are you able to hear me?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
ANONYMOUS: Okay, thank you. You know. I'm not quite sure what the format of this meeting
is. It was just brought to my attention there was some question as to why physicians
were leaving the community. And you know, for fear of retaliation. I'm able--
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me, can you please state your name for the record?
ANONYMOUS; You know, I just want to say for fear of retaliation, I'm not able to speak freely.
But I think that, you know, we should look in, and the community should look into why
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 70
physicians are leaving, more than just housing cost. There's, there's fear of retaliation
and we’re not able to speak freely.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
ANONYMOUS: So, I would like, I would like our community to look into that further. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I was trying to figure out what our
testifier was saying, too. So, it sounds like this is on Resolution 22-84, 85 regarding
housing for the hospital staff. And that assertions have been made on the record that
we're losing a lot of our staff because of the lack of affordable housing. And our testifier
is saying that that's not the only reason, that there are other operational, internal things
going on, and you just want that on the record. Is that, is that what you're saying?
ANONYMOUS: That is correct. And, and we're not able to speak freely for fear of retaliation.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you very much.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for your testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions? Any more questions? If not, thank you very much. May we
have the next testifier? And then, we're going to take our lunch break probably at
12:20.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person signed up to testify is the individual calling
in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 9385. To be followed by
the person calling in from the phone number ending with these last four digits 1524.
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA ftestifyino on Committee Report Nos. 22-23. 22-24. 22-25 &
22-26: Resolution Nos. 22-84 & 22-85; and Bill No. 51 (2022)]:
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 71
MS. KAMEKONA: Aloha awakea, Chair, Vice-Chair, and Councilmembers. My name is Carol
Lee Kamekona, and I'm testifying on my own behalf. With regard to CR 22-23, I highly
support clarification and expanded usage of the AH funding, the affordable housing
funding.
For CR 22-24, this is much needed, especially for developments within areas that have
high concentration of our iwi kupuna burials. So,  Isupport the cultural overlay districts.
For CR 22-25, I am in support of number 3, for Kelly Lanilei Maluo-Pearson for the
Board of Ethics; number 8, for the re-appointment of Hau'oli Tomoso to the Council on
Aging: and number 14, for the reappointment of Kapono Palani Kamaunu to the CRC
Commission.
For Resos 22-84 and 85, as a strong advocate for the protection of our iwi kupuna, and
our cultural resources, and historic archaeological sites, I highly urge and recommend
these resos be forwarded to Committee for review. You may or may not know that the
whole Maui Lani development is built or being built in the Central Maui sand dunes.
Reso 22-85 mentions potential burials. There's numerous burials that have been
disinterred, as evidenced by the ahu's that are located within all the developments. I
am in strong support of workforce housing for our medical professionals. But I ask you,
is there another location that may be more feasible for this housing project? In closing
on this topic, I support the mission and goal of Na Hale o Maui.
As Councilmember Kelly King stated, CR 22-26 is an all or nothing package. Although
I am not in full support of the entire package, I do support more of the proposals than
not, especially numbers 6, 7, 8, and 10; 6, with the inclusion of Kalaupapa, 7 with the
bifurcation of Housing and Human Concerns, 8 for the development of Department of
‘Oiwi Resources, and 10 for the independent review board.
I agree with everything previous testifier Lucienne de Naie stated, with regard to Bill 51.
.. . as the development proposed in that immediate area has many archaeological and
historical sites.
In closing, I commend this Council on its hard work and diligence with this decisions
you make for the betterment of our lahui and its residents. God bless and protect each
and every one of you and your ohana. Mahalo and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, questions? If not, thank you, Carol Lee. May
we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 72
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next person signed up to testify is the individual calling in
from the phone number ending with these last four digits 1524. To be followed by
Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE: And then how many?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there's just one other person after those two individuals.
1524, you're unmuted, it is your time to testify. Chair, I'm not sure if they're here to
testify. Shall we proceed to Mr. Nakoa?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, please. Please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Then the next person signed up to testify is Junya Nakoa. To
be followed by Mary Walker.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-69: Committee Report
Nos. 22-23, 22-24, 22-25. & 22-26: and Resolution Nos. 22-84 & 22-85):
Ho, listen to the music: A-L-O-H-A. Yessah. Okay,  Igoing turn urn down. How you
guys doing? How you guys doing?
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. NAKOA; Aloha. Yessah. I get, I get, okay, 22-69. Yeah, you know the parking fees for
da kine, da hula. Yeah, charge those buggahs, give urn to the Hawaiians. Okay, pau
that one.
Okay. The 23, 22-23. You know the affordable housing guys. You know, this guy, I
worked almost like 40 years on the affordable housing, yeah. I when support some
affordable housing projects, I go against some affordable projects, yeah. But yeah, the
funds gotta go, you know, be a little bit more flexible like that, yeah. Gotta make stuff
happen for real, real, real, real affordable housing guys, yeah.
Braddah Gabe, mahalo for what you doing brah in the Affordable Housing Committee.
Keep it up, brah. Keep it up. I not joking, brah. Affordable housing is one for us guys.
Sorry, brah, for us guys. Us guys, the hard head ones that live here all our lives eh.
Take care us guys first.
Okay, and then what else I going talk about? Sorry,.. .last meeting kind. I came from
the State Legislative . . . Yeah, 26, you know the, again. Housing Department. You
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 73
know how you guys like split em up like that. Yeah, you know what, that's, I think that's
very, very important, no joke. Cause just, it's just like how I said about the Planning
Department and the Public Works Department. Two guys trying to take care the
permitting process. That's jam up. Just have one, you know what I mean? Just have
one. Cause, no, have these, this Housing Department be separate so they can
concentrate on our housing, yeah, and our housing stock. No joke, brah. This is not,
this is serious. Serious stuff, brah. You know me, I like joking around, but this is
serious, serious, serious, serious. I watch my, I'm watching my language. I'm watching
my language. But serious stuff.
Cause, like everybody said eh, you know, it's, we stay losing families eh. Brah, its
hitting me right in my heart cause my braddah and his kids thinking of moving to Vegas,
because he cannot have them ail living in this house right now. And so they, the kids
cannot afford to get one house. I'm bummed, brah.  Istay so bummed. You know,
and then you know how all these developers, they like use affordable housing, yeah,
going build this, I going do that and then, and then, and then they get all these
loopholes. And they figure urn out how for screw us up. Many, many, many projects,
yeah? Scrubs. That is scrubs. That is full scrubs.
And then, oh okay, I think that's pau, I think. Oh yeah, no same thing. The Planning
Commission. So, what you guys, just the other day, 1 don't know what day it is. But
when I when testify about sending, oh yeah, was yesterday, I think yeah, sending the,
the promulgation stuff to the Planning Commission. Like, like couple of the testifiers
when say, I testified plenty at the commission. They is heavily loaded on realtors that
supports the construction industries.
Brah, I bet, you know, all my braddahs, and uncles, and aunties work for the
construction industry. I support them big time. But some of these projects, like the
one, the 53-luxury homes is happening. Sickening how I gotta hear this Hawaiian
saying that, you know, they need, they, they need this for their jobs and all this kind
stuff. But they getting clouded because they work for the, you know, the, you know,
they work for the construction like that. But all my ohana say, and half of em no more
even one house, but they the one who building all these luxury homes and all these
hotels, and all that kind stuff.
So, the Planning Commission, the yeah, need one, oh I think, I think right now get two
from Lahaina. But I don't see them. I don't, 1 don't know who them. I live Lahaina all
my life. I usually try know everybody. But yeah, so, I think I going ail over the place,
but that's okay.
The other one, the Fain/\/ays, the, what, what 85 like that. The Fairway lots affordable.
Again, going to affordable housing. Sickening. Sorry, brah. I tired. Eh, I no need, I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 74
no need make friends here, plenty of friends. I going. I going start, I have been on my
social media throwing people under the bus. I going keep on doing urn. I no care. You
guys like come, you like call me, my number is 808-796-6421.
But brah. Mayor Victorino, stop taking credit for the affordable housing for the nurses
and all the kind stuff. We've been seeing that forever. So build workforce housing,
affordable housing for this kind people, okay? Lahaina gave up the whole beachfront
on North, North Kaanapali. All these . . . sorry, my language, all these bloody hotels
and the million-dollar homes up in Kaanapali, Kaanapali 2020, was, was given by the
Council. Mike Victorino was on urn, okay, on the, on the Council and promised that
they was going build workforce housing, affordable housing for us. You go Lahaina
and zero was built, zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Man,  Ipiss off, brah. Okay?
And you guys, you know this stupid housing credit for again going back to the Housing
Department. This housing credits sucks, because the thing, we never get crap out of
this thing, people of Lahaina. Now, Kaanapali 2020, seeing it going be, build up that,
that, that, that, Jesus Christ, that, that spot that's supposed to be all affordable housing.
Now, they going build 50 percent, 51 percent affordable, 50, 49 market. They double
dipping gangy. But I tell you guys, I, I sick and tired of this stuff. Affordable housing
been my headache for years, okay. I, I sick and tired, brah, okay. Tired.
And that planning. Planning Commission, gotta ruffle their feathers, brah. You guys
gotta educate them before they have to vote on very important issues, projects that
concern us, concern us, brah. Cause them, they always look to the Planning
Department, and I hate the Planning Department with a passion, okay.
And then, braddah Ipo Mossman, yessah. You going hear from me, braddah. But I
going try, try, I going try be on one commission But I give those buggahs credit for
volunteering for be da kine eh, whew, I going, I going call you up braddah. Mahalo.
Sorry, I jumping all over the place, but I stay so piss off. You going hear the passion
from all these testifiers. And you know what . .  .from Molokai, prayers to you guys.
Choke, choke prayers to you guys. So, love you buggahs for choke, no joke. But I, I
gotta, gotta ruffle feathers in our County cause we going lose um. Love you buggahs.
Have a good one, cause 1 will.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sure you will. Any questions. Members? If not, thank you so much, Junya.
You have a wonderful weekend. Stay safe.
MR. NAKOA: You too. Yessah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The last individual we have signed up to testify is Mary Walker.
MS. MARY WALKER (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-84 and 22-85):
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. WALKER: Thank you. Thank you for letting me testify. My name is Mary Walker. I'm
currently employed with Na Hale O Maui, but I am talking today as an individual. I'm
trying very hard not to cry right now. On the 30th of August, my husband of 38 years
was diagnosed with inoperable metastatic melanoma cancer. And on the 5th of
September, he passed away. And it was sudden, and it was unexpected, and he did
not leave us with the means of being able to transition to, my son and I being able to
transition to easily inherit his pension and all of that. So, the past six months has being
very challenging and difficult for the two of us.
But I wanted to say that he was very happy to be  alife-long renter, a life-long tenant.
And in doing so, he, again, did not leave us with the means to have a home to live in.
CHAIR LEE: Mary?
MS. WALKER: So, it's only-
CHAIR LEE: Mary? Mary? Ms. Walker, are you talking about the Maui Lani lots?
MS. WALKER: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. WALKER: lam. 22-84 and 22-85. Thank you for bringing me back on track. I just want
to say that if we had, my husband and I, as a partnership, had worked together to attain
a house before the housing market went insane, I wouldn't be renting still. And it may
be too late for me. He left us with enough to where we can survive on the island for a
couple of years, but it may be too late for me before I have to move to the mainland to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 76
find a place that's more affordable. But i would hope that you folks would consider
making it possible for other families on the islands.
I've lived here 31 years, and this is the home that my husband and his family, going
back three generations, are from. And this was where he wanted his family to be. And
it makes me very sad to think that eventually we're going to have to move, because we
can't afford, even with what he left to us, to buy a house. So, anyway, that's what I had
to say. And I hope that you consider passing this, these resolutions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If not, thank you very much
Mrs. Walker.
MS. WALKER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. If an individual
connected to meeting has not testified, but would like to do so, please unmute and
identify yourself now. I am going to unmute that person calling from 1524, in case they
wanted to testify. This is our last call for testifiers. If there's anyone who wishes to
testify, please identify yourself now.
Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have received written
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Tamar Goodfellow, Maui Health Foundation;
Cassandra Abdul, Na Hale O Maui;
Dick Mayer;
Nane Aiuli;
Belarmino Antonio, Jr.;
Kapulani Antonio;
Char Casserley;
Cassie Chavez and Melinda Sweany, Maui Health Foundation;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 77
Daniel and Manuela Christener;
Karen Christenson;
James A. Diegel, Maui Health;
Wade Ebersole, Maui Health;
Jason A. Economou, Realtors Association of Maui, Inc.;
Marc S. Emde;
Tobi B. Fisher;
Dawnalyn Fujiwara;
Julie A. Hew, Maui Health;
Keomailani Hanapi Hirata;
Joseph "Pete" Jalbert;
Greg Kahn;
Kehau Lucas;
Lizbeth Luck, Makena Golf & Beach Club;
Paul and Jael Mazur;
Josh McKim;
Hannah McKuin;
Greg Mebel;
Colleen P. Medeiros;
Kaleialoha "Pumpkin" Moss;
Heather Mueller, Kula Community Association;
Saedene Ota;
Nancy Leis Overton;
Carlton Pabalan;
Alison and Shalin Patel;
Michael Rembis, Maui Health System;
Robert T. Takamatsu;
Cory Lynn M. Vicens; and
Karen Williams.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good. Members, at this time, you want to come back at 1:30 or
1:45?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 1:45.
CHAIR LEE: 1:45?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: 2:00.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 1:30.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 78
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got more 1:45, so we'll go with 1:45. This meeting is in recess until
1:45.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:29 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:47
COUNCILMEMBER KING, EXCUSED.)
WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPTP.M.
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of March 18, 2022, please reconvene.
Mr. Clerk, proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of December 17, 2021
was presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES, AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
approve the minutes of the Council.
Any discussion? No? And this is the minutes from December 17, 2021. No discussion.
All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Mr. Clerk, why are you looking at me like that? You want roll call?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 79
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Oh, no, Chair. Oh, sorry, maybe I'm frozen.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: No, no.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries.
Okay, next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated February 24, 2022)
NO. 22-62
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the Family Self Sufficiency Coordinator Grant, in the
amount of $45,850.
- LORI TSUHAKO. DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AND HUMAN
CONCERNS, (dated March 8, 2022)
NO. 22-63
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from Federal Corporation for National
and Community Service for the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program, in the amount
of $73,350.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 80
- JORDAN MOLINA. ACTING DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKSNO. 22-64
(dated March 4, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the Traffic Impact Fee Agreement for West Maui Project
District 2 - Kapalua Mauka, and a copy of a check for traffic impact fees, for the
Mahana estates development, in the amount of $164,500.
NO. 22-65 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated February 24, 2022)
Transmitting a summary schedule and detailed reports of the Special Management
Area (SMA) Revolving Fund as of December 31,2021.
NO. 22-66 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR,
(dated March 1, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Maui County Arborist Committee due to the resignation
of Cody Clark, effective February 28, 2022.
NO. 22-67 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR
(dated March 7, 2022)
Informing of a vacancy on the Commission on Children and Youth due to the
resignation of Mercedes-Nicole Ritte, effective March 2, 2022.
- PATRICE MATSUMOTO. CHAIR. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
(dated March 9, 2022)
NO. 22-68
Transmitting the performance evaluation of the Director of Personnel Services.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I move to file all items on the Consent
Calendar. Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 81
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Can I pull 22-64?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Alright, any objections to pulling that out, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I  MOVE TO FILE ALL THE ITEMS IN THE CONSENT
CALENDAR.
And we just pulled out CC 22-64, so that is not included in this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by, moved by Member, I mean Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
seconded by Member Kama, to file these items.
Alright. Any discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes". Eight "ayes", one "excused"; Member King. Motion carries. No
"noes".
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 82
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JORDAN MOLINA. ACTING DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKSNO. 22-64
(dated March 4, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of the Traffic Impact Fee Agreement for West Maui Project
District 2 - Kapalua Mauka, and a copy of a check for traffic impact fees, for the
Mahana estates development, in the amount of $164,500.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. 22-64?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. The one that was just pulled from the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Thank you.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'd like it to be referred to my Committee. But if Member
Sugimura weeds it in her Committee, I'll be open to it if she schedules it. I mean,
obviously not before Budget, but at some time during the year.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll take it, but I'm just curious, do you have time on your
budget? I'm sorry, in your calendar? I think not, yeah?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. If I took it up, I would probably take it up during compliance
report reviews. But obviously, not before Budget.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Okay, sure.
CHAIR LEE: So, refer to IT. Okay. Alright. Any objections, Members?
(Councilmember King returned to the meeting at 1:51 p.m.)
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 83
CHAIR LEE: If not, so ordered. Let the record show that we have Member Kelly King joining
the meeting. Alright. Proceed. You're muted.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Proceeding with county communications for referral. Apologies
there's some feedback.
CHAIR LEE: I'll, I'll go off.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member, okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Okay. The following county communications are recommended
for referrals to the following Committees as noted:
- SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
{dated February 28. 2022)
NO. 22-69
Transmitting the Hawaiian Cultural Restoration Revolving Fund annual revenues and
expenditures report.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-69 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
- LANCE T. TAGUCHL COUNTY AUDITOR
(dated February 24, 2022)
NO. 22-70
Transmitting the County of Maui Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for
the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021, submitted by N&K CPAs, Inc.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-70 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-71 - LANCE T. TAGUCHL COUNTY AUDITOR
(dated February 24, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply Financial Statements and
Supplementary Information with Independent Auditor's Reports for Fiscal Years Ended
June 30, 2021 and 2020, submitted by N&K CPAs, Inc.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-71 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 84
NO. 22-72 - JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated March 10, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending February 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-72 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
NO. 22-73 - JEFFREY T. PEARSON. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated February 25, 2022)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for December 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-73 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with Committee Reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-23 AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE:
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AMENDING TITLE 3, MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO USE OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
61
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 85
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-23.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, discussion, Member Johnson? It's been moved by Member Johnson,
second by Member Molina, right. Member Molina, to pass the attached bill on first
reading.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Your Affordable Housing Committee met
on February 25, 2022, and discussed a proposed bill amending Chapter 3.35, Maui
County Code, to expand and clarify the allowable uses of the Affordable Housing Fund.
Your Committee had previously met to discuss a proposed bill amending both
Chapter 3.34 and 3.35, on December 13, 2021 and January 24, 2022, and received
presentations from Jeff Gilbreath, who explained the merits of expanding the
Affordable Housing Fund priority number two in the cap; DHHC, who explained how
the funds are used; and heard from our County's bond specialist when the matter was
introduced in November 29, 2021.
After the February 25 discussion, your Committee agreed to bifurcate the proposed
legislation into two separate bills, one amending Chapter 3.34 and the other, which is
before us, the amends, that amends Chapter 3.35 and the allowable uses of the
Affordable Housing Fund.
Your Committee supported the use of the fund to provide following: 1) comprehensive
infrastructure assessments for affordable housing projects; 2) long-term planning for
affordable housing and houselessness solutions; and 3) funds for payment of principle
interest on bonds issued for affordable housing projects.
Your Committee revised the proposed bill to include definitions for "very low income"
and "gap income". Your Committee further amended Chapter 3.35, to specify the use
of the funds for grants and loans to entities developing 100 percent affordable housing
projects.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 86
Your Committee, your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the revised
proposed bill on the first reading. I respectfully ask for the Members support for my
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any further discussion? All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Mahalo, Members. Another 9-0 vote, wonderful.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-24 AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
That Resolution 22-79 . entitled "REFERRING TO THE LANA‘1, MAUI, AND
MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSIONS AND THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL
RESOURCES COMMISSION PROPOSED BILLS RELATING TO CULTURAL
OVERLAY DISTRICTS," be ADOPTED; and
1.
That County Communication 21-534, from Counciimember Shane M. Sinenci
be FILED.
2.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO POSTPONE CR 22-24 TO THE APRIL 1, 2022,
COUNCIL MEETING.
And if I get a second. I'll explain.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 87
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Member Sinenci to postpone Committee Report 22-24 till the
April 1 meeting, seconded by Member Paltin.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Members. The additional time is needed for staff
to review the documents attached to CR 22-24. I appreciate the testimony today that
support the creation of the cultural overlay districts and hope they will support the
additional time. That said, I respectfully request your support of my motion. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-25 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TOThat Resolution 22-27. CD1
THE AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE COUNTY OF
1.
MAUI," be ADOPTED;
Approving the appointment of Casey Nicole Josiah to the Affirmative Action
Advisory Council fora term expiring on March 31, 2027.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 88
2. That Resolution 22-28. CD1
THE ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ADOPTED:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
be
Approving the appointments of Scott Randall Luck and Leslie Ann Aiko
Yokouchi to the Animal Control Board for terms expiring on March 31, 2025.
3. That Resolution 22-29, CD1
THE BOARD OF ETHICS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED;
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
Approving the appointments of Kelly Lanilei Maluo-Pearson and Kathryn
Reeves Shroder to the Board of Ethics for terms expiring on March 31, 2027.
That Resolution 22-30, CD1
THE BOARD OF VARIANCES AND APPEALS FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
be ADOPTED;
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO4.
Approving the appointments of Leon Salacup Bolosan and Harry Richard Hecht
to the Board of Variances and Appeals for terms expiring on March 31, 2027.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO5. That Resolution 22-31, CD1
THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointments of Kalikolehua Elizabeth Keanuenueonalani Storer
and Ralph Jude Thomas to the Board of Water Supply for terms expiring on
March 31, 2027.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TOThat Resolution 22-32, CD1
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ADOPTED;
6.
be
Approving the appointment of Sharon Mie Suzuki to the Civil Service
Commission fora term expiring on March 31, 2027.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TOThat Resolution 22-33, CD1
THE COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH FOR THE COUNTY OF
7.
MAUI." be ADOPTED;
Approving the appointments of Heidi Angela Drahn and Brian Thomas
McCafferty to the Commission on Children and Youth for terms expiring on
March 31, 2027, and disapproving the appointment of Ericka Ashley Chavez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 89
That Resolution 22-34, CD1 , entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE COUNCIL ON AGING FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED;
8.
Approving the appointments of Valerie Mapuana Kalaniopio-Cook, Michael
Alexander Lilly, and John Anson Hau‘oli Tomoso (Reappoint) to the Council on
Aging for terms expiring on March 31, 2027.
That Resolution 22-35, CD1
THE FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI," be ADOPTED:
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO9.
Approving the appointment of Luke Makani Bailey to the Fire and Public Safety
Commission for a term expiring on March 31, 2027, and disapproving the
appointment of John LeRoy Buck III.
10. That Resolution 22-36, CD1 . entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE LANAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointments of Erin Simone Trevino Atacador and Reynold
Masaji Gima to the Lanai Planning Commission for terms expiring on March 31,
2027, and disapproving the appointment of Jay S. Margulies.
That Resolution 22-37, CD1
THE LIQUOR CONTROL ADJUDICATION BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI," be ADOPTED;
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO11.
Approving the appointments of Harold Cathcart and Rhonda l\A/alani Lai Loo to
the Liquor Control Adjudication Board for terms expiring on March 31, 2027.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO12. That Resolution 22-38, CD1
THE LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointments of Patrice Masae Matsumoto and William
Kaimohala Richardson to the Liquor Control Commission for terms expiring on
March 31, 2027.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO13. That Resolution 22-39, CD1
THE MAUI COUNTY COMMISSION ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES," be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointments of Mahina Yasmin Filiotama Hannemann-Gago,
Melissa Ann Johnson (Reappoint), and David Wainee Tallant III to the Maui
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 90
County Commission on Persons with Disabiiities for terms expiring on
March 31, 2027.
14. That Resolution 22-40, CD1 . entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO
THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION," be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointment of Kapono Palani Kamaunu (Reappoint) to the Maui
County Cultural Resources Commission fora term expiring on March 31, 2027.
15. That Resolution 22-41, CD1
THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
Approving the appointment of William Gordon Greig to the Maui Pianning
Commission for a term expiring on March 31, 2027, and disapproving the
appointment of Jerry Ediao (Reappoint).
16. That Resolution 22-42, CD1
THE MOLOKAI PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be
ADOPTED;
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
Disapproving the appointments of Kaleialoha Moss (Reappoint) and John
Robert Sabas to the Molokai Pianning Commission.
That Resolution 22-43, CD1 . entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE POLICE COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED;
17.
Approving the appointment of Lahela Kaleiohawane Aiwohi to the Police
Commission for a term expiring on March 31, 2027, and disapproving the
appointment of Calmentina "Tina" (Pedro) Gomes.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO18. That Resolution 22-44. CD1
THE PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI be
ADOPTED;
Approving the appointment of Noah Kekaimalu Walin to the Public Works
Commission for a term expiring on March 31, 2027, and disapproving the
appointment ofKeshia Leiana Adolpho.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 91
That Resolution 22-45, CD1
THE REAL PROPERTY TAX REVIEW BOARD FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
be ADOPTED; and
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO19.
Approving the appointment of Carolyn Mildred Franklin (Reappoint) to the Real
Property Tax Review Board for a term expiring on March 31, 2027.
That Resolution 22-46. CD1
THE SALARY COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI," be ADOPTED.
entitled "APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO20.
Approving the appointment of Uvette Josette Sakamoto to the Salary
Commission fora term expiring on March 31, 2027.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-27 AND CD1 THROUGH
22-46, CD1.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Molina, seconded by, I'm sorry, who was the
seconder? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much. Madam Chair. And to you and my
colleagues, and everyone else tuning in, please bear with me, I'm going to be here
awhile with reading out these various names and committees and so forth.
Your Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on
February 22, 2022, and March 2, 2022, to discuss 39 nominees to various boards and
commissions. Your Committee notes the general appointment procedures for boards,
committees, and commissions outlined in Section 13-2 of the Revised Charter of the
County of Maui (1983), as amended, and Chapter 2.41 of the Maui County Code.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 92
Your Committee further notes the Mayor is required to submit names of nominees to
the Council no less than 60 days and no more than 70 days before the prior members'
terms expire. If the Council fails to approve or disapprove any of the Mayor's nominees
by March 28, 2022, nominees will be deemed appointed to fill the vacancy. And if the
Council disapproves a nominee, the Mayor will be notified immediately.
Here we go now. Your Committee was satisfied with the background of 31 of the
39 nominees for the various board and terms for which they have been nominated.
First, to the Animal Control Board, Scott Luck and Leslie Ann Yokouchi.
To the Board of Ethics, Kelly Pearson and Kathryn Shroder.
To the Board of the Variances and Appeals, Leon Bolosan and Harry Hecht.
To the Board of Water Supply, Kalikolehua Storer and Ralph Thomas.
To the Civil Service Commission, Sharon Suzuki.
To the Commission on Children and Youth, Heidi Drahn and Brian McCafferty.
To the Council on Aging, Valerie Kalaniopio Cook and Michael Lilly and John Hau'oli
Tomoso, who is a reappointment.
And to the Public Safety Commission. Luke Bailey.
To the Lanai Planning Commission, Erin Atacador and Reynold "Butch" Gima.
And to the Liquor Control Adjudication Board, Harold Cathead and Rhonda Loo.
To the Liquor Control Commission, Patricia [sic] Matsumoto.
To the persons with. Commission on Persons with Disabilities. Mahina Hannemann-
Gago, Melissa Johnson, who's a reappointment, and David Tallian [sic] III, to this
Commission.
And to the Maui County Cultural Resource Commission, Kapona Kamaunu, who is a
reappointment.
And to the Real Propedy Tax Review Board, the reappoint, the reappointment of
Carolyn Franklin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 93
To the Salary Commission, Uvette Sakamoto.
To the Affirmative Action Advisory Council, Casey Josiah.
To the Public Works Commission, Noah Walin.
To the Liquor Control Commission, William Richardson.
To the Maui Police Commission, Lahela Aiwohi.
And to the Maui Planning Commission, William Greig.
The Mayor informed your Committee that Commission on Children and Youth
nominees Ericka Ashley Chavez, Public Works Commission nominee Keshia Adolpho,
and Molokai Planning Commission nominee John Robert Sabas, \withdrew from
consideration. So, as a matter of procedure, the Committee disapproved these
nominations.
Your Committee also recommended Lanai Planning Commission nominee Jay S.
Margulies, Molokai Planning Commission nominee Kaleialoha Moss, Police
Commission nominee Calmentina "Tina" Gomes, Maui Planning Commission nominee
Jerry Ediao, and Fire and Public Safety Commission nominee John LeRoy Buck III, be
disapproved.
Your Committee expresses its gratitude to the nominees for volunteering to serve the
community. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, thank you. Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Chair
Molina, for handling this great discussion for boards and commissions.
AND I WANTED TO FIND OUT THE PROCESS THEN FOR THE
RESOLUTION NO. 22-35, WHICH IS FIRE, THE
DISAPPROVAL FOR JOHN BUCK. I WANTED TO VOTE IN
OPPOSITION OF THAT. AND I KNOW HE DID A MASS
MOTION FOR IT, AND I HAVE OBJECTIONS TO SOME OF
THEM THAT WERE DISAPPROVED AND I WANT TO
EXPRESS THAT I WOULD LIKE TO AGAIN REITERATE MY
VOTE FOR THEIR APPROVAL, SO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 94
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair. Thank you. Member Sugimura. I believe you
can request for a separation vote for any of the nominees,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. Okay, so I will now then, thank you. Is now the right
time, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I’ll leave it to the Council Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you have number 9. What else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SO, NUMBER 9, JOHN BUCK. AND THEN ALSO. FOR
NUMBER 15, WHICH IS RESO 22-41, WHICH IS JERRY
EDLAO, MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION.
RESOLUTION NO. 22-42, ITEM NUMBER 17 [SIC], WHICH IS
DISAPPROVAL OF KALEIALOHA MOSS FOR THE MOLOKAI
PLANNING COMMISSION.
DISAPPROVAL OF CLEMENTINE /-S/C; "TINA" GOMES.
ALSO, FOR
AND THE LAST ONE IS
And I will explain.
CHAIR LEE: And the-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That's it.
CHAIR LEE: Can you identify that number.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh sorry.
NUMBER 17, WHICH IS RESO NO. 22-43.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, discussion?
Oh, let's have a second. Is there a second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to sep
separate the items that she, Member Sugimura just outlined.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah, thank you. So, if you'll allow me, I'll go over all of it
at once. So, I have a working relationship, or had with John Buck. And I, I believe that
for the Fire Commission, he would provide us valuable service by being on the
So, I know there's a disapproval for him, but I'm going to vote incommission,
opposition of that. So, that is item number 9.
Also, for the next one is item number 15, which is Resolution 22-41, disapproval of
Jerry Ediao for the reappointment. As I said. I've listened to him on some of the
Planning Commission meetings and his experience that I think was valuable. So, I'm
going to be voting against disapproval, this disapproval.
And item number 16, which is Reso No. 22-42, this one isjusta disapproval. And sorry
about this, Keani, cause I know in the Committee meeting, I also supported the
disapproval. But I did call her from that meeting, till last week, just to talk to her and
find out where she was on sea-level rise and some of the objections that were brought
up. And I apologize, cause I went, I should have called her maybe before and I didn't,
only to find out that. Pumpkin as she’s called, she lives close to the ocean. So, she's
very aware of sea-level rise.
And I should have supported the Molokai District Rep for her approval to the Maui
Planning Commission. And she said something very interesting. She said some of
the items that get taken up by the Commission are for her neighbors who want to do
fixing up of their renovation of their home or whatever, you know. And that she was
concerned that the Planning Commission may disapprove them because of their
proximity that they live on that discussion.
So, on that, I apologize to you, Keani, because I know you supported her. As well as
when I did talk to her, she and her husband are the one who've been trying for four
years to change their zoning of their business, and I think Keani helped them. But she
said it's still not done. Not, she wasn't grumbling about that, cause i was talking to her
just about her, her role in the Molokai Planning Commission. So, I'm going to be voting
in opposition to that, because I think she is a valid voice in behalf of the community,
that maybe what Keani was trying to explain to us. So, Keani, I'm sorry about that.
And then, the last one is disapproval of Resolution No. 22-43, the disapproval of
Clementine [sic] Tina (Pedro) Gomes. And on this, for the Molokai Planning
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 96
Commission, I think what was. I'm sorry, for the Police Commission, I think what was
brought up in discussion is that at the time that she actually resigned from the Maui
Planning Commission, that she was having a lot of personal things going on. And I
wish she would have spoken about it. But the things that were going on in her life, she
did the right thing by resigning. And she did tell me, when I called her in between just
to find out, you know, how is she and whatever, she said that those things got resolved.
And she told herself that when she was ready, that she would put herself out there
again to try to go back into service for the community. She's a go-getter and I think
her voice would have been a valid and a strong voice for the community and the Police
Commission.
So, those are the ones that I, that I wanted to do the separation for, and those are my
reasons. Thank you, everybody, for letting me go on and on. Those are my reasons.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. This is more of a procedural
question. I’m not sure, is it preferable to, I guess, vote on all of these four individuals
as in one blanket motion, or would it be better for the sake of record to do it separately.
Four separate motions. I presume Member Sugimura is going to make a motion to
approve each of these four individuals. So, I don't know if maybe OCS can chime in
proceduraily, which is the most, I guess, convenient or easiest way to go about this?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. OCS? Mr. Mitchell.
MR. REMY MITCHELL: Chair Lee. Thank you for the question. Member Molina. I think
either approach is an option, but it's to your discretion how you'd like to conduct the
motions.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mitchell. Okay, Madam Chair, we'll
leave it to you how you want to proceed.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Members, do you want to vote once on four, or do you want to vote four
times? Once on four, okay.
Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I thought the motion was just to, for the separation? Are we
actually voting on the--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Right. Right,
to vote.
Yes, separation, but when, when the vote comes, when it's time
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so this motion is just on whether to separate or not?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Four.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry, Madam Chair. Just another procedural question. With
a request for separation, do we need a motion for that? Because I know in, in past
years, past practice, it's just a Member makes a request from the floor to separate, and
the Chair lets it go. But I don't know how it is at Council. If it's more formal that we do
it as a motion to separate?
CHAIR LEE: No. I, I believe Member Sugimura made  amotion to separate those four.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, so it was just the, okay, that's the motion to separate
and not to approve?
CHAIR LEE: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Alright. Thank you...
CHAIR LEE: When it's time to approve, then I'll ask you once more, do you want to do all
four or just, or four separately?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on separation? All those in favor of the motion to separate
those four items as mentioned by Member Sugimura, raise your hand, oh, let's take a
roll call vote? Mr. Clerk, can we have a roll call vote?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Proceeding with  aroll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 98
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. MOLINA, PALTIN
SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, AND
SINENCI.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 99
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now we're going to vote separately on each one.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so do you want me to make the motion?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Approve, okay, so I'll go over each one. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Hold on. Hold on. We have some questions here. First, the Clerk and then
Member Paltin.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies, Chair. So, the motion that just prevailed was a
motion to separate the four resolutions that Councilmember Sugimura mentioned.
Now, the main motion as amended is still on the floor to adopt the remaining
resolutions--
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: --that Councilmember Molina moved to adopt.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we’ll do that. Okay, everybody got that. Alright, shall we proceed with
the vote? The main motion on the floor is to adopt the other, the rest of the resolutions,
except for the four separated out. Any more discussion on those? All those in favor
of the motion say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
So, now, we're going to vote on the four that were separated out. Member Sugimura
please make your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so-
CHAIR LEE: Let's do it one at a time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 100
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Alright. Thank you.
Motion to approve the appointment of John LeRoy Buck III for the Fire and Public
Safety Commission.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, problem again.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, so the way these resolutions are structured are the names
are appended to the resolutions on exhibits. So, in order to change how an
appointment is done, you know, the resolution would first, you know, there would need
to be a main motion to adopt the resolution, and then it would need to be followed by
a motion to amend the resolution to move the name to the exhibit. You know, if it's
approval, then it's from the disapproval to the approval. And if it's for disapproval, then
vice versa. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, she was going to do the first step, right? Okay. Once again.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sorry. Mr. Molina, did you want to do the first step? Is it
okay if 1 do?
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no, no, you. No, you do the first step.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: And the second step.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
SO, 1 MOVE FOR ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION NO. 22-35,
CD1, FOR THE FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
FOR LUKE MAKANI BAILEY. APPOINTMENT OF LUKE
MAKANl BAILEY.
And then, how do you want me to handle the other part of it, that I don't agree? Clerk?
CHAIR LEE: Wait a minute. I'm sorry. Weren't you on number 9?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 101
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; lam. lam. Resolution 22-35, number 9, for CD1, approval
of the appointment of Luke Makani Bailey to the Fire and Public Safety Commission.
Okay, that's, that’s good.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Wait, wait, wait, I thought you meant John Buck?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I am. But I thought 1 heard I had to do the whole resolution?
CHAIR LEE: No, no, no.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, if I could?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. I think we already had a
motion on the floor that included Mr. Bailey's approval, on the resolution to approve,
yeah. So, I think maybe the appropriate motion, and maybe I may be wrong, would be
to, I guess, approve, since the issue is Mr. Buck with the Fire and Public Safety
Commission. I guess you could state to amend the motion on the floor to add the name
of John Buck to the exhibit to approve, I believe.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. I don't know, maybe Mr. Krueger would like to clarify
that?
CHAIR LEE: You're muted.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, so for, so what just happened, the main motion as
amended that the body passed previously, adopted all of the resolutions that weren't
separated. So, those are done. Now, there are four resolutions still outstanding that
need to be dealt with by the body. If the intent is to move, is to make someone who's
currently on a disapproval list to an approval list, then that resolution first needs to,
there needs to be a motion to adopt that resolution first. And then, that motion can
then be subsequently amended to move the name. So, the people on the approval list
would not be affected. But if the intent is to make someone who's on the disapproval
list to the approval list, their name needs to be moved—
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 102
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -by, by an amending motion.
CHAIR LEE: Did you get that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I got that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but, but then we had another hand.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, I thought in the past, the purpose of this process was to
not let the person vote, let them vote how they want to vote, not to change what we
decided on? Like, that's how it worked in the past. We, we decided on something,
and I can support Member Sugimura not wanting to vote that way, but it's not that we're
changing, we're, all of us are changing. She's just not supporting the, the, the
committee report.
CHAIR LEE: Right. Right. So, you can vote "no".
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, I'm voting "yes", on what we passed out of Committee.
She's voting "no".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you misunderstood the last vote then. You're, you're, then, why did you
vote "aye" for us to separate?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So that she didn't have to support something that she didn't
support. So she could vote "no" on those. That's how it was when I didn't want to
support someone in the last term. That's the way we did it.
CHAIR LEE; Urn, I think it wasn't that simple. You know, when we separate something, that
means we're going to take it up separately. But then, that involves two motions, yeah?
Because it has to be moved from--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We thought it was just a
CHAIR LEE: -one exhibit to-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; . . .
CHAIR LEE; What was that?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18. 2022
Page 103
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The last time we did this exercise, the separation was to allow
the person to vote their conscience, not to change what we all decided upon in
Committee. That's how it went last time we did this.
CHAIR LEE: Well, that’s, that’s not my recollection in Council. Are you talking about in
Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; No, I'm talking about Council. When Riki Hokama was here
and had that one guy that was from Main Street Association and . . .
CHAIR LEE; Well, let, let’s ask the Chair of the Committee.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Madam Chair, let's do this, maybe we can take a brief recess
to confer with staff on procedural matters and then come back out on the floor with a,
I guess the appropriate motion that Member Sugimura wants to make.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can I, can I just make a-
CHAIRLEE; Yes? Yes, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, my thought is when we, when, when the
separation is made, it should have been for Resolution 22-35. So, we should not have
voted on the whole resolution. And then, if, if we're going to separate that out, then we
vote on that resolution separately. And she can make a, try to make an amendment if
she wants to, to that resolution. But if the, the, the anomaly here is that we took parts
of those resolutions and voted on them. And other parts are, were, we're not voting
on. So, that, I think that's kind of what we do.
Does that, does that, does that make sense. Mr. Krueger, that we, instead of separating
the entire resolution, we just separated people out. We separated the candidates out.
CHAIR LEE; You’re, you're muted again.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 104
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Apologies. Chair. Yes, Councilmember King, my understanding
was that the separation was for the entire resolution. So, those
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, it's the entire resolution? Because I think she confused us
cause she started talking about the persons in that resolution, rather than just
separating out the entire resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So. then, you know what? We'll take a break. And in. during that break,
Mr. Clerk, I would like you to contact Member Sugimura and give her the correct
verbiage for the motion. And it sounds like two motions. And so, that we can proceed
smoothly for the rest of the meeting, okay? So, is that, is five minutes sufficient?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And then, we have another question.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So. my question is, as the Clerk has a
discussion with Member Sugimura, is the discussion for her to just change her vote?
Just for her to change her vote in, as they prepare, and they figure out how we're going
to handle that? Or is that for all of us to now re-vote?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, it's, it's going to be different. So, they'll explain it when they come back.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Five minutes. Make is 2:30. Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:23 P.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:32 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of March 18, 2022, please reconvene?
Mr. Clerk. Well first of all, Member Paltin, can you repeat the question that you, you
asked us before the break?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 105
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Sure thing. My vote for separation was with the understanding
that Committee Chair Molina would go about the same way what we was doing, but to
give Member Sugimura the opportunity to vote her conscience, as we've done in the
past. Are we saying now that the vote to separation allows Member Sugimura to, as
not the Committee Chair, to introduce a motion totally separate from the committee
report?
CHAIR LEE: Do you understand the question. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. So, the, oh, apologies, there's a. So, the motion to
separate that was made, separated out the four resolutions that Councilmember
Sugimura requested separation for. Now those, that that motion, you know, stands on
its own. And Members can vote to approve or approve any motion for any reason that
they choose. But the motion themselves stand alone. So now that those four
resolutions are separate, and all the other resolutions are dealt with, then the body
needs to now deal with these other four resolutions. And, you know, anybody can
make a motion for any of those resolutions. And any Member of the Council can also
make subsequent amendments to those motions for any of those resolutions. So, you
know, and then it would just be up to the body to vote one way or another how it feels
on those motions. I hope that's a clear explanation. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but on, on that question, the resolution may have more than one name.
And if she's interested in one name, what would her option, best option be?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: If, if a Member is interested in, in moving a name, then they are
able to make a motion to move that name to whatever list they want to move it to. And
then it's up to the body to vote to decide whether or not to approve that, the moving of
that name. And then if, and then once the main motion is amended to adopt the
resolution for the entire appointment list, then it's up to the Members to vote--
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: -whether or not-
CHAIR LEE: But if you remember, if you remember, her motion was to, to actually separate
people, certain people. So, she may have mentioned Resolution, you know, 22-25,
let's say, which consisted of two names. But she, but then she only mentioned one
name, remember?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our, our understanding is that the motion to separate was
for the entire resolutions. And that the names that were mentioned was just justification
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 106
as to why the motion seeker was seeking the separation. But as far as separating
names themselves, I don't think such a motion is actually possible.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Because it sounds that, like that's what happened in the past, that's why
Member Paltin is asking. You know, that the one name was separated, so that the
supporter of that person could vote "no", instead of "aye", right, Member Paltin? See
what I'm saying?
CHAIR LEE: Uh oh, we lost you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. But 1 have to get back to his answer
okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This year is different, because this
year we have a different process with legislative numbering. In the past, we had one
resolution with an exhibit, that had all the names. And so, we had all of the names on
the exhibit for approval, and then we have an exhibit for disapproval. And so, we would
put names on the exhibit for approval, or the exhibit for disapproval. This year, we
have a different process with, with the legislative numbering system that we have. This
year, each of the board or commission has its separate resolution.
And so, we have 20 resolutions with sometimes more than one name on it. And so,
we cannot adopt a resolution, or we cannot approve one name because both names
are on one resolution. So, the motion will need to be for adoption of the resolution,
and then we would amend the resolution. So, we would amend the main motion to put
one of the names on one of the exhibits, either for disapproval or for approval.
My question for Mr. Krueger is, we amended the resolution in Committee. It was
posted the way that it was posted with one name on the approval, one name on the
disapproval. So, when the main motion is made, it's made as it was amended in
Committee, and posted on today's agenda. Is that correct?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, that's correct. We, we post the resolution as, as the
Committee sent it to us.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Mr. Krueger. So, the main motion will have
to be as it is on the agenda. Then, Member Sugimura would make a motion to amend
the main motion to remove Mr. Buck's name from the disapproval exhibit to the
approval exhibit. And at that time, we will all vote together on whether we want to
support the motion to amend the main motion for that action. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 107
CHAIR LEE: So, who's responsible for making this more complicated? Okay, getting back
to you, Mr. Clerk. And turn your mic on, okay? Turn your mic on. So, we, do we have
to go through all of this just to get to one person to be voted on? I mean, is there a
simpler way? We all know what's happening here. There's certain people that Member
Sugimura wants to vote "aye" on, and then the rest will probably vote "no" on. Okay,
so what is the simplest way to get from point A to point B? Or do we have to go through
this whole long process?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, my understanding is that the, the quickest route is the
one that the body is currently on, you know, to deal with the single name on a
resolution. That's, this is, this is the way to do it. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: So, so we, she has to make another motion then? Withdraw her, her motions
and then she has no choice but to separate the entire reso, ail four resos that have
other people's name on it, right? Okay,
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: That's the first step. Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And so, we already voted on the
motion to separate. So, 1 will make the main motion to adopt the resolution 22-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. She mentioned the names. She mentioned the
names.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. And she can amend my main motion to move
Mr. Buck's name from dis, the disapproval list to the approval list after I make this main
motion. And so, I saw Member Paltin with a second,
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Okay, went from that to two, okay, 5-2. Alright.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll take the second half of that. So, I make. I'll amend the
main motion to place John-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait, wait. We didn’t, we're not finished yet. Not finished, we're not
ready for you yet, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 108
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We are. We are. We're ready .. .
CHAIR LEE; Let’s get back, let's get back to, I would like you, Mr. Clerk, to read the motion
on the floor.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: As made by Member Sugimura.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I, there's no recognized motion on the floor, currently.
You haven't recognized the motion. There is no motion on the floor, currently, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, there's no motion on the floor. Member Sugimura. Okay, cause there's
all this confusion, so, okay, there's no motion. So, let the Vice-Chair make-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 1 move-
CHAIR LEE: -make the motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION 22-35.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member, I mean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded
by Member Sugimura, to adopt the resolution. To what did you say, separate this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Nope, not separate. Adopt Resolution 22-35, CD1.
CHAIR LEE: To adopt-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
YES, SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; -resolution as she mentioned. Okay, any more discussion on that?
Okay, now she's going to make the amendment.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 109
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Right. So, I amend the main motion.
CHAIR LEE: ... I move.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh okay.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN MOTION TO PUT JOHN LEROY
BUCK 111 FROM EXHIBIT C, WHICH IS DISAPPROVAL, TO
APPROVAL, WHICH IS EXHIBIT B.
Is that correct. . .
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're making progress here.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, making progress.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And we already had the discussion, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: We already had the discussion. Any more discussion from other people?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I speak against the amendment. I've also
worked many, many, many years with Mr. Buck and I don’t feel that this would be a
good fit. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I will also not be supporting the
motion to amend for the same reasons I gave in .. .I voted against the motion . . .
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 110
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. For the record, I'm going to uphold my vote in
Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Good.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. I'll also vote to uphold my vote in
Committee, which was to support Mr. Buck. I’ve known Mr. Buck for many years. Very
community-minded person, and !'m confident that he would make the time to offer his
thoughts and contributions on the Fire and Public Safety Commission. So, I will
continue my stance to support Mr. Buck, and therefore, support the motion on the floor
as made by Member Sugimura. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? I'll also be voting "aye", because my experience with Mr. Buck
over the years has been a very positive one. So, are we ready for the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Clerk, roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roil call vote, Chair.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 111
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are four "ayes", five "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Shall we have the next one?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Members.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're back to the main motion, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We’re back to the main motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 112
CHAIR LEE; Back to the main motion, okay. Back to the main motion.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, Madam Chair, do we have to now also do a vote to put
or, or Mr. Buck's name, because of the vote that just happened, still remains on the
disapproval list, am I correct, for clarification sake?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Alright, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; It remains on the disapproval list. Any, anybody else? Okay, ready?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. So, just as a reminder, that we have
two names. We have Mr. Luke Makani Bailey, who is on the approval list. And then,
we have John Buck, who's on the disapproval list. And so, we're, we're, we're voting
on both of those names In this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah, so because of the process, I apologize to Luke
Makani Bailey, because I supported him, as we did in Committee, but because of my
feelings of how to vote for John Buck, I'm going to be voting against the main motion,
because I still support my conviction that he would, John Buck would be a good
member of the, the Fire Commission. So, just wanted everybody to know.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Anybody else?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Roll call vote. Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Proceeding with the roll call-
CHAIRLEE; Roll call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 113
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 114
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are seven "ayes", two "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Member Sugimura? Or do you want Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez to start it off?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Whatever. It’s fine.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-41, CD1.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by, who was that?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Kelly.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, to adopt Resolution 22-41, CD1.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no dis, okay no discussion. We'll go straight to the amendment.
Alright, Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 115
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
I MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-41, CD1, BY PUTTING
ON THE APPROVAL LIST JERRY EDLAO (REAPPOINTMENT),
I GUESS IS WHAT IT SAYS.
EXHIBIT C, WHICH IS DISAPPROVAL, PUTTING HIM ON THE
APPROVAL LIST FOR JERRY EDLAO.
SO. TAKING HIM FROM
CHAIR LEE; Okay, second, somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
I SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to put Jerry
Edlao on the approval list. Any more discussion? No?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I won't be supporting the amendment. I will uphold my
Committee vote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. While I. I appreciate Mr. Ediao's
willingness to continue to serve, 1 will also be upholding my vote in Committee. And
just recently was another example of why I'll be upholding my vote in Committee to not
support Mr. Edlao to the Maui Planning Commission. They just had a contested case
hearing on Wailea 670 and there was an issue of ethical behavior and how the
procedure should have been taken. And Mr. Edlao tried to rush the vote with a
commissioner, who after executive session, was deemed to be conflicted and not be
allowed to vote because of previous statements before the contested case hearing.
So, it's a matter of integrity and upholding appropriate legal processes. So, again, I, I
will be supporting, well. I'll be upholding my vote in Committee to not support the
nomination. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Sorry, I believe Member King had her hand up.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18. 2022
Page 116
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't know if you can see me. Hopefully I'm not frozen. I think
Member Rawlins-Fernandez said what I was going to say, so thank you for that. And,
you know, just in the interest of my community .  .. the unfortunate recipient of that
behavior, I will stick with my vote in Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you for my opportunity. And I, although I recognize
Mr. Ediao's willingness to serve, I am looking for more of a balanced approach. I'll
uphold my Committee vote.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If  Icould ask Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez for additional clarification on the, what transpired with regards to the ethical
issues surrounding Mr. Ediao? 1 mean, was that a ruling made by the Ethics Board, or
it was just something that surfaced at the commission level. Planning Commission
level?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Molina, for the
question. So, there's a contested case hearing. The Chair of the Commission made
statements, basically concluding what he would, how, what his position would be prior
to the contested case. Because the commissioners, as well as, you know, all of us as
elected officials are, are supposed to be neutral parties in these proceedings and listen
to everyone. He made public statements about how, basically pre-determining how he
would vote before the contested case hearing even started.
They went into executive session. Prior to going into executive session, Mr. Ediao tried
to rush the vote with the Planning Commission Chair to be able to vote. And the
attorneys recommended executive session. Otherwise, the, the vote that would have
been taken with the Commission Chair could have been overturned or ruled
inappropriate. After returning from executive session, the Commission voted not to
allow the Commission Chair to, to vote.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you for that clarification.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 117
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.1 mean, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. If i may ask Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
a question, in terms of when, when did we know this? Did we know this earlier, before
our last meeting that we did when we took this? Did we know it then?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: About what's happening?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Pro Temp Kama, for the
question. No. this contested case hearing just happened. We can double-check with
Member King, but I believe it was last week. So, to answer your question, no, we did
not know this at the time of our Committee meeting. But this, this happened after our
Committee meeting. So, this is new information. Mahalo. Mahalo, Member Kama.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Now, where is our Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: I'm here, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Roll call.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote.
Counciimember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Counciimember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
Counciimember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 118
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: YES.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are two "ayes", seven "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed. Do we have any?
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I move to adopt Resolution 22-42,
CD1. Oh, sorry, we have the main motion on the floor. We have to vote on the main
motion on the floor.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 119
CHAIR LEE; That's why I said to proceed, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay, proceeding with a roll call vote on the main motion on the
floor.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
CHAIR LEE; NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 120
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTiN, SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are seven "ayes", two "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Now, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-42, CD1.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by
Member Sugimura, to adopt Resolution 22-41. 42 or 41? 41.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 42, CD1.
CHAIR LEE: Oh 42, CD1, okay. Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama
to adopt Resolution 22-42, CD1.
Vice, I mean. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-42 TO PUT EXHIBIT,
ONTO EXHIBIT FROM C TO B THE APPOINTMENT OF
KALEIALOHA MOSS (REAPPOINTMENT) TO THE MOLOKAI
PLANNING COMMISSION. SO, I MOVE TO APPROVE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 121
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to move to approve, what is
Ms. Moss.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, Ms. Moss.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Moss. Okay. Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I think I said . . .
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you, no more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. I cannot support this motion. I'll stand by my vote
in Committee. It's one thing to see sea-level rise occurring, it's another thing to act on
it. And I believe Ms. Moss' testimony where, you know, she believes the SLR-XA
estimates, or sea-level rise projections are estimates. And 1, I do agree, they are
estimates. But I think it's going to be much worse than what is estimated, not much
better.
And so, you know, there's a difference between believing in sea-level rise and acting
as though you believe in sea-level rise and climate change. And so, I can't support it.
The Planning Commissions have the sole authority in the special management area.
And so, it's, it's very important that you not just believe in it, but you act as though you
believe in it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Mr. Clerk. Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I've known Ms. Moss pretty much my
whole life. And this one was a little hard for me, because it, it's, it's hard to champion
someone whose votes and, and values differ, aren't, aren't really aligned with your
own. And so, I, you know, Ms. Moss' attendance is great. She contributes to the
discussion. But when she votes, she votes differently than I would vote. And so, I, I,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 122
I've been struggling with this, how do I, how do  Iproceed? And so, I, I agree with
Member Paltin’s comments about it's one thing to, you know, believe in something, but
it's anotherto incorporate that into your decision-making, especially when you're voting
on things for the future of a community of an island. Those are my comments. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Comments? Anyone else?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote on the motion to amend.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 123
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are four "ayes", five "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote on the main motion.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 124
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are five "ayes", four "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. The last one.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-43, CD1.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCi:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Sinenci
to adopt Resolution 22-43, CD1. Discussion? Nothing right?
So, Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 125
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME MAKE THIS AMENDMENT TO
THE MAIN MOTION TO APPROVE THE APPOINTMENT OF
CLEMEN, CLEMENTINE [SIC] "TINA" PEDRO GOMES FOR
RESOLUTION 22-43, CD1, TO THE POLICE COMMISSION.
I think I gave my reasons before.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, second by Member Kama. Okay, any discussion
on the motion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I'll be upholding my vote in Committee. And,
you know, this one is a little bit personal to me. I'm speaking on behalf of myself as a
constituent of that time. You know. I've shared with the, the body that I've applied
multiple times to be on the Planning Commission.  Idiligently watched the Planning
Commission over many, many years. And every meeting, 1 think she only attended
about two meetings during her three-year tenure on the Planning Commission.
And I can totally understand what Member Sugimura is saying. You know, if somebody
is not able to fulfill for medical reasons or whatever, totally understandable, no fault
there. The issue is that for three years, she continued on to the point where we had to
pass legislation on how to address this situation moving forward with anyone else. So,
I'm voting on behalf of myself that was sitting in the audience trying to get on the
Planning Commission, watching somebody not showing up meeting after meeting after
meeting, important decision after important decision after important decision. When I
reached out to Member Molina as the staffer of appointing boards and commissions
and“
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but we're, we're having some kind of
connectivity problem in the chamber.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 126
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE; 1 need to take a five-minute recess. Well, a little over five-minute. 3:15, we'll
reconvene. Recess. Sorry.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3:04 P.M. ,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:16 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the regular Council meeting of March 18, 2022, please reconvene?
Sorry, Member Paltin, we got you in the middle of the sentence. You want to finish
up?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, I'm not sure, sure where I, where we lost connectivity.
But 1 just, it's a vote on, on behalf of myself and everyone else who, you know, applies
for the Planning Commission and then watches a whole year go by, 2019, with only
two attendances, watches 2020 go by with one attendance. And knowing that, you
know, that there's people out there qualified and not getting the chance, because
people want to hold onto the seat, but not attend. And, and like I said before, it's, it's
perfectly fine to resign if you're having health issues or any kind of issues. The point
that hurt me, as a constituent, was holding onto the seat and not attending. And, and
you know, folks, like myself never getting a chance to get to this point, you know. So,
that's what my vote is based on. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll maintain my vote that! took in
Committee to support Ms. Gomes. And yeah, I guess there were some reasons as to
possibly why Ms. Gomes couldn't attend some of the Planning Commission meetings,
but I'll just say she had been facing some extraordinary circumstances in her life that
converged all at once.
But I, I'd like to remind the Members, if you're not aware, Ms. Gomes has, was on the
Maui Police Commission, previously, was a very active member, participated in a lot
of the discussion.
And then, while a member of the Cost of Government Commission, she in my opinion,
single-handedly saved that Commission from being abolished, because at that time
while she was serving there were several members on a previous County Council that
had wanted to abolish this Commission. And Ms. Gomes stood up for her colleagues
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 127
on the Commission and defended the reasons as to why this Commission should be
saved. And thank goodness, this Commission is still in action today. And we have
wonderful people like Mr. Williams, Mike Williams, who Chairs this very important
Commission. So, that's something that wasn’t mentioned in Committee.
So, to me, I believe in giving people a second chance to again prove themselves. And
at the time, of course, there was no official legislation as it relates to attendance policy.
So, now that we do have an attendance policy, Ms. Gomes and. as a matter of fact, all
boards and commission members now will be held to  ahigher standard in terms of
attendance. And if they don't, well then, certainly the Mayor will be forced to submit a
recommendation of disapproval to the Council for all other, you know, nominees. So,
that I think is a very good safeguard.
But again, I speak in strong support of Ms. Gomes. And again, she has served her
commission admirable. And she's also served on the State Campaign Spending
Commission as well. So, she's a very, very well-qualified individual to serve, in my
opinion. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, just wanted to clarify what, something that Councilmember
Molina said. You said that Mike Williams now Chairs this Commission? Are you talking
about the Police Commission?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Cost of Government Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause we're on. we're on number 17, right, which is about
the Police Commission?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. No, I was just explaining about Ms. Gomes’ history
yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, was she the-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: And so, my reason for supporting . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She was previously on Cost of Government? Is that what you
were saying?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 128
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I wasn't. . . confused with what you were saying. Alright
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Vice-Chair, did you have your hand up? No? Oh, no?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I don't think 1 had my hand up. I was
doing the research, cause I heard the same thing Member King heard, that Mr. Williams
is the Chair of the Cost of Government and Mr. Frank DeRego is the current Chair of
the Police Commission. That's all.
CHAIR LEE: Right
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: He was talking about her history and her vast experience on various boards and
commissions.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. No, 1, I understand that. I understand that.
It’s just, 1 think, you know, in explaining that, it, there, there may have been a little mix-
up. I do that too. 1 do that all the time. Wanted to, I heard the same thing that Member
King heard that's why.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? Okay, I, I thoroughly echo what Member Molina said and
1 will support Ms. Gomes.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, did you have your hand up? Sorry. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I just want to thank everybody for, you know, about Tina,
as she's very committed, she works super hard. And in that part of her life where she
was going through a lot, when the Maui Planning Commission. One of the stories she
recently told me is that during all of that, you know, with a lot of things going on with
her life, that she was taking care of her mother, and her mother died in her arms. And
I just want to say that because it wasn't negligent in her part or irresponsible. I think
she was just taking care of somebody that she dearly loved and other things in her life,
which, as she told us, when she came before us that, you know, a lot of her things in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 129
her life at that time that was challenging had been resolved. And she's now back to
come back to work and do her volunteer work for the community. So, 1 just wanted to
mention that. I think, there's other things which, you know, it’s up to her to mention.
But thank you very much, Members, for reconsidering this.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, did you make your motion to move from disapproval to approval?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh.
CHAIR LEE; Did, no, did you? There was so much discussion and 1, I'm just asking.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll do it. I thought I did, but I'll make the amendment to the
main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk? Wait, wait, wait, let me check with him. Mr. Clerk?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes, Chair. The motion to move Ms. Gomes' name from the
disapproval list to the approval list is on the floor.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, second and final. I think at, it was at that point maybe
that we cut out. But I just wanted to say that I'm not holding it against anyone if they
have personal issues in their life, whatever they may be. I, I think that anybody who
has personal issues in their life are totally entitled to resign. The issue that 1 had was
not resigning for years with that attendance, with many important decisions in our
community being made, with quorum not always been able to have, be had. So, I
mean, that's very serious issue.
Attendance on half the meetings in 2018, two meetings in 2019, and one meeting in
2020. The issue is not if you have something in your life going on. Please, your life
has to take precedence over a volunteer board or commission. The point that I'm trying
to make is that by not being responsible and resigning, it prevents work from being
done. It prevents the full board from having the discussion. And this was a very
important time period, and the Planning Commission is a very important Commission.
So, on a personal note, as a constituent, as a applicant, I felt that my community was
hurt by that action. And so, i can't support it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 130
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I just, I just looked in the transcription
for the confusion. That's why I didn't raise my hand earlier. I was trying to figure out
what was being said. So, I just wanted to say that Member Molina just said the Maui
Police Commission and then Cost of Government Commission real quick, and 1 didn't
hear that transition. So, my apologies. Member Molina. That was my fault. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote on the amendment.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 131
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. MOLINA. SUGIMURA,
AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCl, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, there are four "ayes", five "noes"; motion fails.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Proceed.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote on the main motion.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; NO.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 132
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, MOLINA, SUGIMURA
AND CHAIR LEE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are five "ayes", four "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Proceed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 133
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-26NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-25. CD1 . entitled "PROPOSING ALTERNATIVE
AMENDMENTS TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),
AS AMENDED, REU\TING TO THE 2021-2022 MAUI COUNTY CHARTER
COMMISSION FINAL REPORT," be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-26, CD1, [SIC] Am TO
ALLOW THE CLERKS TO INCORPORATE ANY
NONSUBSTANTIVE REVISIONS AS NECESSARY.
COUNCILMEMBER SiNENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adopt Committee
Report 22-26, CD1 [sic].
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you. Madam Chair. Your Government, Relations,
Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on February 22, 2022, March 1, 2022, and
March 2, 2022, to review the 2021-2022 Maui County Charter Commission Final
Report and proposed alternative amendments in accordance with Section 50-8 of the
Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Your Committee notes Section 50-8 of HRS requires the Charter Commission to submit
its report to the Council, together with a draft of the proposed Charter within one year
of appointment.
At its meeting of February 19, the Council appointed, February 19, 2021, make that
clear. Council appointed nine members to the Charter Commission. And at the same
meeting, the Mayor notified the Council of his two appointments to the Commission.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 134
So, therefore, the deadline for the Charter Commission to submit its report together
with a draft of the proposed Charter was February 18, 2022.
And in accordance with Section 50-8 HRS, the Council has 30 days from its receipt of
the Final Report to propose alternatives to the Charter Commission's proposal. And
accordingly, the Council's deadline to propose alternatives is March 21 of this year.
In Section 14-1(1) of the Charter provides for the initiation of Charter amendments by
resolution of the Council adopted after two readings on separate days and passed by
a vote of six or more Members of the Council. And according to an opinion dated
May 22, 2012, from Corporation Counsel, Section 14-1(1) does not apply to the
procedure by which the Council may propose alternatives to the Charter Commission's
proposed amendments.
Section 14-1(1) need not be met for proposed Council alternatives to the Charter
Commission amendments.
So, therefore, the two-reading requirement under
And according to Section 50-9 HRS, the Charter Commission has 30 days after
receiving any alternatives from the Council to either; (1) accept the Council's
alternatives and incorporate them into, into the Charter Commission's proposals; or
(2) reject the Council's alternatives.
And any rejected Council alternative will be placed on the General Election ballot on
November 8, 2022, in competition with the corresponding Charter Commission
proposal, unless the Council recalls or retracts the alternative within 10 days of being
notified of the Charter Commission's rejection.
Your Commission appreciates the members and staff of the Charter Commission for
their many months of dedicated work on behalf of the residents of the County. And
your Committee offers this report with respect and admiration for the Charter
Commission's diligence and its efforts to engage the public.
And your Committee carefully considered the need and relative merits of the Charter
Commission's proposals and thoroughly debated its own alternatives with the
assistance and guidance of the Department of Corporation Counsel. And Members,
we all do recall, we worked late, pretty late for sure on those three days. Your
Committee voted 7-2 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-25, CD1, that
incorporates your Committee's alternatives. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more discussion?
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 135
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have an amendment.
I  MOVE TO AMEND PAGE 10 OF THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION. UNDER THE ALTERNATIVE TO THE SIXTH
PROPOSAL, SECTION 8-8.4, SUBSECTION 1, BY REMOVING
THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE:
THERE ARE TWO MEMBERS FROM A COUNCIL RESIDENCY
AREA, AT LEAST ONE OF THE MEMBERS MUST RESIDE IN
THE SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA".
EXCEPT THAT WHEN
SO, I MOVE TO REMOVE THAT LANGUAGE AND
SUBSTITUTE IT WITH: THAT "THE NINE MEMBERS MUST
INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE AND NO MORE THAN TWO
MEMBERS WHO RESIDE IN EACH COUNCIL RESIDENCY
AREA ON THE ISLAND OF MAUI." AND DELETE; "EXCEPT
THAT WHEN THERE ARE TWO MEMBERS FROM A COUNCIL
RESIDENCY AREA, AT LEAST ONE OF THE MEMBERS MUST
RESIDE IN THE SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA", WHICH
WAS IN MY MOTION.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Molina.
Discussion, Member Sugimura, on your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I think you must have heard Dick Mayer, I think
he gave a pretty impassioned testimony this morning and explained why. And I will tell
you that the Kula Community Association called a,  ameeting-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can you hold on? Hold on one second, please.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Remy Mitchell, why are you on the call? Is there a procedural problem?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY RICHARD MITCHELL: Pardon the interruption. Chair Lee. Yes,
I believe there was a bit of confusion the way the motion was stated. 1 believe 1 heard
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 136
Member Molina refer to Resolution 22-25. And then, when you restated his motion,
you referred to it as CR 22-27 [sic]. So, if we can just make sure we're clear on what
the main motion was, that would be good. Thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: No, I said 26. I had, I said 26.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, that, that, that's on me, yeah, in the,
when I, you first called on me for the motion. I should have said 22-25. and I think I
mistakenly said 22-26.
CHAIR LEE: And I repeated 26, not 26.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That's my bad. Thank you, Mr. Mitchell, for catching that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, no objections, Members, to that minor error there?
Okay, so proceed again with your explanation, or discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this is a motion on,  Imove to amend page 10, do I
have to say this thing, the whole thing? So, this is regarding recommending adoption
of Resolution No. 22-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, no, no, you don't have to repeat the whole thing. Just, you were in the
middle of discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: Explaining, you know, about Mr. Mayer.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so 1 think you heard, I think you heard Dick Mayer
this morning, give his testimony on why. And I will tell you that the Kula Community
Association, at our board meeting, brought this up, which was a special item on the
agenda, much to the great dismay of many of the members about the rationale. And
1, I think enough of what's been said. But I believe that the motion is to allow and not
discriminate the Upcountry members, because they don't live and do not touch the
ocean, you know. So, I think it was explained enough.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 137
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I’m not sure if you wanted to call on the Deputy Clerk first?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. Did you raise your hand?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair. Apologies, I just had a real quick clarification on my
end. That the amending motion on the floor currently. So, our understanding of the
motion is to just strike the language, "except that when there are two members from a
council residency area, at least one member must reside in the special management
area." The other language that was mentioned is existing language already. "The nine
members must include at least one and no more than two members who reside in each
council residency area on the island of Maui." I just wanted to clarify that. Is our
understanding correct?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You are correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I speak against the amendment, and I will
maintain my vote from Committee. I think that the most pressing issue that the entire
State and globe faces moving forward is sea-level rise and climate change. And like I
said many times, the Planning Commission has the sole authority over the SMA. I
can't be, I can't be any more clear that these issues are going to affect all of us. But
the people that are living on the coastline will be experiencing it firsthand. So, I
maintain my vote from Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, before you, I go to you, Member-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... Can you see me? I've had my hand up for quite a while,
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry. But, actually, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez had her hand up
almost right after Paltin. Was yours a . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 138
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'll be quick, Member King. I just wanted to ask
Member Sugimura to put the language in the chat.  Idid find Mr. Mayer's testimony,
and the, the, the amendment isn't in the testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; That's all. And then, you can go to Member King.
Mahato, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I guess you can't see me, but I actually was, had raised
my hand before the amendment was made. I just wanted to clarify something that i
thought I heard Member Molina say. Maybe I'm just not hearing you right today.
Member Molina. Sorry about that. But I thought I heard you say that anything that we
voted on would still go on the ballot against the Charter, if the Charter amendment, the
Charter Commission didn't accept our changes that it would go on the ballot still?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. I believe somebody-
CHAIRLEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: You might want to get a, further clarification from OCS or
Corporation Counsel.
CHAIR LEE: Remy, are you on the line?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, is that what you said? Or did I, did I not hear you right?
CHAIR LEE: He's wanting . . .
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, if I said that, yeah. That's what, what I've been given,
information that I was given. But maybe Mr. Mitchell could add further clarification to
your question.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY MITCHELL; So, there will be a, thank you for the question. Chair
Lee, and the opportunity to clarify here. There will be a 30-day Charter review process.
And then, after that, a 10-day review for the Council to decide whether it's going to
retract any of its alternatives.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 139
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But what I had heard was that if we, if the Charter
Commission does not accept our alternative, that it will go on the ballot, ours would go
on the ballot... to the Charter Commission . .. But I see Mr. Whitaker here to, maybe
he can respond to that.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Whitaker.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL KEOLA WHITAKER: Thank you, Chair. What Mr.
Molina indicated is that if the Charter Commission does not accept your alternative, it
will go on the ballot, unless this body decides to recall that amendment. So, you'll have
the opportunity after the 30-days that the Charter Commission considers to recall that
amendment, so it doesn’t appear on the ballot, if that's your choice.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But it, it will appear on the ballot along with the Charter
Commission's proposal? So, there would be a like a, there would be two proposals.
And I guess, is it just the one that gets the most votes that wins? Or a separate
requirement for one of them to get 50 percent of the vote?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITAKER: -so in order to-
CHAIRLEE: Mr. Whitaker.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITAKER: Thank you. Chair. In order to amend the
Charter, it would have to get more yes votes than no votes. And if there's a competition
between the alternative and what the Charter Commission proposed, it's whichever
gets the most yes votes. So, if they both get more than 50 percent, it's whichever gets
more yes votes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, as long as there aren't more no votes on either one of
them, or I guess either one of them? Okay, so it's not going, there's no, more no votes
on both of them, then neither one of them will make or win? Okay. Wow, that's really
confusing. That's the first time I've heard that. But thank you for that. So, so, yes, I
did hear you correctly. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'm confusing everybody today.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, no, it's just, I hadn't heard that before, that it would
automatically go on there. So, that was news to me. But I, 1 do want to speak to the
motion that's on the floor, because I understand, you know, I understand and respect
the Kula Community Association's position, but I have to say that, you know, my
community feels like it's been discriminated against many times, because there are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 140
people on the Planning Commission who don't understand the SMA. Who've been
giving out these extensions . . . SMA, when we're right in, even in areas of sea-level
rise.
So, you know, I don't see it as discrimination. I see it as looking for the expertise or
the knowledge. Just like we have a requirement for the . . . environmentalist on the
Planning Commission, whether it would be Native Hawaiian cultural expert on the
Planning Commission. I would like to see if there's an extra position ... a person who
understands what's going on in the SMA. So, 1 don't see it as a, a discrimination. I
see it as a, you know, wanting to have more experience and expertise for what, for
something that is very important.
Because we have no, Council has no authority over the SMA and that's what's so
frustrating. Because, you know, we have complaints all the time. I get complaints all
the time about what the Planning Commission is doing and the decisions they're
making in Kihei, cause it's usually in violation of what the community wants. But I can't
do anything about it.
So, you know, having more people from the areas that where we feel, I think West
Maui and South Maui both get discriminated against, because we both have, there
have been times when there have, hasn't been anybody from our, our respective
communities on it. And that's, that's kind, that, that's why I don't see this as
discrimination. I see it as looking for a level of expertise that's sorely needed on this
Planning Commission. So, I, I'm going to stick with my original vote on the, in
Committee and, and not, and, and vote against the amendment.
But, you know, I appreciate what you're trying to do, Member Sugimura. I just don't,
and I, and the other thing about this idea of discrimination is Kula hasn't even asked
for an advisory committee. So, you know, the, you know. North Shore and South Maui
both asked for the advisory committees because of this. But I, I really feel like until we
get our own planning commission, that we're going to continue to be discriminated
against, because people don't understand what's happening on the, in these shoreline
communities. So, that's my position on, on that. And I appreciate your position, but I
don't agree that this is discrimination. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall I proceed with  aroll call vote on the amendment?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 141
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 142
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA
SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS KING, PALTIN, SINENCI
AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are five "ayes", four "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Kula appreciates this
or Upcountry. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall I proceed with  aroll call vote on the main motion as
amended?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, to, to clarify, this is the main motion to adopt the entire
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Sinenci, you want to keep your vote?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I, I, I think, I'm not sure if all the Members are like on,
like, that's it? Does anyone want to dis, I know we're in the middle of taking a vote, but
[ don't think everyone understood, like, we were, what, we went from a motion to amend
straight to the main motion. And there's no more discussion? I mean, I'm cool with
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 143
CHAIR LEE: Well, there, there could be. There could be. But we've already had discussion
on, on the amendment. If there's further discussion on anything else, raise your hand.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. So, clarification on this vote is to include
the nine members must include at least one and no more than two members who res,
who reside in each council residency area on the island of Maui? That’s the vote?
CHAIR LEE: No. Will the Clerk please clarify that?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the vote that, the motion that just prevailed was to amend
the resolution, as it pertains to that sixth proposal. And that motion prevailed. Now,
it's the main motion as amended, which is to adopt the entire Resolution 22-25, CD1,
as amended.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, basically, the vote right now is to adopt all those 13 proposals
that we all worked on those three days a couple of weeks ago. And with just this one
amendment from Member Sugimura. So, now this vote is to say we're either going to
up or down all that hard work we all did together on these 13 proposals, correct?
CHAIR LEE: Correct. Does, does anybody have any further discussion? Now's the time.
Member King, and then Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I just wanted to say that I don't agree with all of the
decisions for all of them, but I'm going to support the entire package, because this is
the collective decision that we've made together as a committee. So, I will support the
resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. For my second and last time.
Along with thanking the Charter Commission and their hard work, but also our
Committee staff for spending those grueling three days that we had. And this was just,
also, I believe combined with the, still finishing up on the mass nominations as well.
So, it was quite an experience. And I apologize as the Committee Chair for putting all
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 144
of you through the grindstone. I know at times there was some short fuses. But, you
know, I guess it's just a reflection of all of the passion that we have for our work. So, I
just want to thank everybody all around, staff especially and, and you my colleagues
for, you know, walking the trail with me and for all of your hard work. And, and yes, as
Member King said, collectively, we gave our own opinions of all the 13 proposals. And
I think it was certainly a very healthy, healthy discussion. So, that's, just wanted to end
by saying that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. I also want to also thank the GREAT Chair,
who did a great job taking us through this long path of all of these boards and
commissions, nominations and, and the testifiers, you know, who also came. It was
kind of a long day for everybody. But you certainly handled it well. Thank you very
much. And somehow, you always make things a little bit fun, so appreciate your, your
humor.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Kama, sorry. Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I guess it’s my second and last time to speak on this issue. I
think when we do policy, like what we're doing on the Charter amendments, is you
don’t get everything you want. Nobody, I don't think any of us got everything that we
want. But I think most of us were able to live with what we said and, you know, we
compromised at some things. And, but in the end, when it's all said and done, this is
our, this is ours. It belongs to us. It's the Council's alternatives to what the Charter
Commission had given over to us. And I'm kind of proud of the work that we've done.
And I just wanted to say to the Members that whether we like it or don't like some of
the stuff in it, it's us. It's us. And this is who we are, so I'm proud of that. So, thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, did I see your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes. Actually, I just had a clarifying question, because I don't,
from what I heard earlier, I don't think our work is over yet. We have, we'll get some
notice back from the Charter Commission, I just wanted to clarify this, after they
approve or disapprove what we suggested. And then, we have, we would still have to
meet on this one more time to decide whether or not to keep our versions on the ballot
or pull them back altogether. 1 think, is that correct. Member Molina?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 145
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I believe so. Yes, there exists that possibility. And we
probably have to beg our Budget Vice-Chair, if we have to, about meeting during
budget session. But I, I'm, but anyway. I'll just say I'm hoping that doesn't happen. But
if it does, we might want to be prepared for that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I, I just wanted to clarify that because I don't, I think our
work is maybe not quite over. But I, I, hopefully when it does come back, it'll be after
budget, because I think they have some date in July to, to finalize the entire thing.
Okay, so. I'm just. I'm expecting more work again. But, you know, good work so far.
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson. Thank you. Chair. I, I just want to ditto a lot of the, my fellow
Councilmembers said, this was a lot of work. And  Iwant to say thank you to Chair
Molina, as well as all the Councilmembers who worked so hard on this, as well as the
Charter Commission. And I think echoing what Councilmember Kelly King said, our
job isn't over.
I, I listened to the testifiers and what they had said was this is some heavy stuff. We
need to really go out there and educate our, our, our electorate on these particular
issues. So, I'm going to go out there and stomp for the bifurcation of the Affordable
Housing Department, or, you know, the Housing Department. So, I think our job isn't
over and we gotta educate our folks. And we'll, we'll hopefully at least get on the ballot
and let the electorate decide. So, it was a lot of work. It was. It was my first time going
through it. But yeah, very important discussions and very important decisions that the,
the elect, the voters will now make. So, look forward to hearing what they have to say
about all of this. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Last and final. If this was the good old days, Chair Molina
would have food in the back for all of us to eat. Every time he kept us over for a long
meeting, he would have like Costco hot dogs, we would have pizza, meat chili. So,
that's okay, we'll take lOU's, the GREAT Chair. You did a good job. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Mr. Clerk. I see no other hands.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 146
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. And I'll make it quick. I just want to
share in the sentiments with my colleagues and, you know, thanking Member Molina
for, you know, facilitating the meetings. It was  alot of work, a lot of discussion. But,
and like my colleagues, I, I don't, you know, necessarily support everything. But I'm
proud of the work that we did. And I agree that a lot of education will need to be done.
And I hope in the budget maybe we can allocate some funding for additional education.
Okay, we're getting a thumb's up. But, but, and absolutely, Member Molina, you know,
if it does come back to us during budget session, I, I will make time for us. ... But I
will be voting to support. Oh, it looks like I triggered something in Member Molina now.
Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Chair. I'm not speaking to the motion, which
I already did my two. And thank you for the comments, Vice-Chair. Just an FYI,
Committee staff reminded me though, we have Council-initiated Charter amendments
to consider as well down the road after budget. So, just a FYI. So, yes, as Member
King said, our work is not quite over yet as it relates to Charter proposals. So, just
wanted to throw that in. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, anybody else? Thank you, Mr. Molina, again. You did an extraordinary
job, and we really appreciate your hard work.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Good job. Member Molina. And, and I just was throwing it out
there that maybe 13 is enough this year? We don't want to overload people or scare
them away from voting. You know, people don't like to read. Throwing it out there,
13's good or less, for Members' consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, shall I proceed with the roll call vote on the main motion
as amended?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 147
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay, to adopt Resolution 22-25, CD1.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Sorry, having hard time \with the button.
AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawiins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 148
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. KING.
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine "ayes", no "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Congratulations.
Mr. Clerk, proceed.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-27NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 13, CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 19.40.080, MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO AMEND CONDITIONS,
AMENDMENTS, AND MODIFICATIONS OF CONDITIONAL PERMITS," be PASSED
ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-27.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin. second by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-27.
Member Paltin, discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee met
February 3, 2022, and February 24, 2022, and discussed Bill 13 (2022), to amend the
conditions, amendments, modifications of conditional permits for the island of Molokai.
Bill 13's purpose is to amend Section 19.40.080, Maui County Code, to revoke the
Planning Director's authority to approve nonsubstantive amendments to conditional
permits for Molokai.
Resolution 21 -92, adopted by the Council on June 4, 2021, referred to the Lanai, Maui,
and Molokai Planning Commissions a proposed bill entitled "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE
RELATING TO CONDITIONAL PERMIT AMENDMENTS".
The Department of Planning recommended amending the bill to exclude Molokai
consistent with the support of the Molokai Planning Commission.
Council sought the Planning Commission’s comments and recommendations to
propose bill referred by Resolution 21-92, but instead received Bill 13.
Your Committee discussed Bill 13, CD1 that applies a countywide approach to the
Planning Director's nonapproval of nonsubstantive amendments to conditional permits.
Your Committee further amended the bill to instead authorize the respective planning
commission review of proposed nonsubstantive amendments for approval or
disapproval.
Your Committee expressed support for Bill 13, CD1, and voted 8-1 to recommend
passage of the proposed bill on first reading. I respectfully ask for the Members
support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: More discussion? Any more discussion?
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this is the vote that I'm the one that opposed it. And
so, during discussion, if I remember from the beginning and where we ended up with,
is that it was Molokai who wanted to have a, the Molokai Planning Commission wanted
to review this before it got approved. And by the end, it turned out to be all the
commissions, Molokai, and Maui, and Lana'i now have that same. And Molokai and
Lanai, I mean, sorry, Maui and Lanai initially said no, they didn't want. But then, we
added all three. So, now all of them want. So, that's why I, I voted no, and I'm going
to stand by my vote. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 150
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, just wanted to clarify that what we ended up with was
something different than with what we started out with. So, it wasn't that we accepted
what Molokai wanted. Just clarifying that. We talked it out, and then, we didn't do what
the original resolution said, and we didn't do what came back from Molokai. So, we
discussed it and came up with, like, 1 guess a happy medium.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, last and final. I apologize if I sounded like that. I, I'm
just justifying, you know, my recollection of why  Ivoted that way. And I remain, I stand
by my vote. I'm going to vote no again for that reason. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I supported this in Committee, and I support it
now. And, you know, for the, the other communities who wanted the same advantage,
I think that now putting it the way we amended it, and then we included the other
planning commissions, takes away that idea that we were discussing earlier of
discrimination, by not giving the other planning commissions the same advantage to
have a voice in these exceptions. So. I'm in support of where we're at with this bill right
now.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 151
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
Apologies, was that an "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight "ayes", one "no"; motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18. 2022
Page 152
CHAIR LEE: Next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions. The following resolutions
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-75
AUTHORIZING EMPLOYMENT AND ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION
RELATED TO THE SPECIAL COUNSEL
KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP, AS THE COUNTY OF MAUI’S
BOND AND DISCLOSURE COUNSEL FOR THE NEXT GENERAL
OBLIGATION BOND ISSUANCE, OTHER BONDS, AND OTHER LEGAL
SERVICES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-75 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-75 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 154 through 158 for discussion and
action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-80
ADOPTING THE FUEL TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI.
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-80 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 153
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-81
ADOPTING THE WEIGHT TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI,
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-81 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-82
ADOPTING THE REAL PROPERTY TAX RATES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI,
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2022
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-82 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-84
AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY TO HOUSING
AND LAND ENTERPRISE OF MAUI, DBA NA HALE 0 MAUI AND FOR
WAIVER OF OUTSTANDING REAL PROPERTY TAXES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-84 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-85
AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY TO THE MAUI
HEALTH FOUNDATION AND FOR WAIVER OF OUTSTANDING REAL
PROPERTY TAXES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-85 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 154
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-76
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF MARCY MIKI SASADA-PAIVA TO
THE REAL PROPERTY TAX REVIEW BOARD
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-76 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-78
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF LYNCH, DONNA V. KA HALE  AKE OLA
HOMELESS RESOURCE CENTERS, INC.; ET AL., CASE 09-21-5673-8
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-78 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-77
URGING THE ADMINISTRATION TO DEVELOP A
ZERO WASTE MASTER PLAN FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-77 be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-75
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on B, oh sorry,
Resolution 22-75, authorizing employment and additional compensation related to
special counsel.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 155
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Second?
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: So, are you going to make a motion on that? You're going to make a motion on
that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, mahalo, Chair. I, I'm, well, I, we have to do the
waiver first.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-75, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: -Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to waive the
Rules of the Council.
Any discussion on that? No discussion. All those in fa-
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was wondering the urgency?
CHAIR LEE: Urgency? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, this is cause it needs to be taken
up before budget. And I was planning to have one meeting to take on some of the
things that needs to be taken up before budget session starts and, and that's it, so,
yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Is, is that okay with, that answer, that, does that answer your question
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. It needs to be taken up before budget.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 156
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Anyone else with questions or discussion? Okay, we're on the waiver
vote, right? Is anybody going to vote no? All those in favor of the motion, say "aye",
raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Members. And, you
know, okay.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-75.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt Resolution 22-75.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this resolution would
extend Contract C7395 with Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, for an additional one-year
term. It would also authorize their employment as special counsel for bond and
disclosure counsel services for the County's next general obligation bond issuance,
and to provide other legal services for other bond, and an amount not to, for other
bonds, for an amount not to exceed $75,000.
We have Finance Director Teruya and Budget Director Yoshimura on the line if
Members have questions. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 157
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members, to either the depart--
Member King, and Member Paltin, and Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I guess this question is forthe Budget Director.
Just, can you just maybe give us a real quick briefing on how you'd select this, this
consultant? I mean, is it a new consultant or is it one we always use?
CHAIR LEE: Member. I mean Michele Yoshimura. Director.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Councilmember King, as indicated, we did
do a RFP, a request for proposals. And from there, Katten was selected. The proposal
was done back in February of 2021. So, this is requesting an extension to the contract.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so we haven't put out a new RFP since, since 2021, or?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: No. We did the initial back in 2021. Mr. Katten has served us.
Mr. Scully, Craig Scully, has served us very well. He has made himself available at all
hours, whenever we had a question, or Council had  aquestion. And so, we fee! very
pleased with his services, and would like to continue for the next year. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, I think, I think. Member Paltin, then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: ... my question. Mr. Scully was that guy when we had the
affordable housing one, and it was nighttime where he was, that's the guy?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, yes. Councilmember Paltin, he is based in New York, so he
does have that five- or six-hour time difference. But does make himself available.
Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Yeah, I support him. He was nice and knowledgeable
and, you know, entertained our questions. So, I think that's a good choice.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So, we're extending the contract. So, so I'm
looking at . . . that the transmittal says May 26, 2021, we executed a contract. And
then, it's supposed to be for a whole year. And the RFP was dated February 19, 2021.
So, so has his contract, has his contract expired, or are we trying to just have a
continuation? So, before it expires, we go ahead and approve the extension?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 158
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Thank you, Chair. We want to extend his contract before it expires.
COUNCiLMEMBER KAMA; Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; And that’s why we're asking for it to be renewed at this point. Thank
you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay. Okay, I got it. Thank you, Chair. Thank you
Ms. Yoshimura.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any other questions for Coach Teruya at the baseball field? No. Okay.
No more questions.
Mr. Clerk, where are you? Ready?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, did you, did you want me to do a roll call vote for this
one?
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Voice vote, right?
CHAIR LEE; Do you think, you think it's a-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No opposition.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. No opposition. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Thank you.
Next. Did you want consideration of anything else? No?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 159
CHAIR LEE; Alright. Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, just wanted confirmation that there's no objections to the
referrals as read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Can I ask, can I ask a question, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but we're not finished though, right? You're only talking about the, the
BFED items, yeah?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yes. Yes.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh. Chair, that was for all of the referrals. The only resolution
that I have not called out yet is Resolution 22-83.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: All other resolutions were read out in the referrals.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, okay. Okay. Go ahead. Keep on. I was looking at
something.
CHAIR LEE: Was that your question. Member Kama?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: No, no, no. I was going to ask Chair something but, I mean
Vice-Chair something, but I can ask her after.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Proceed then, Mr. Krueger.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Yes. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 160
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-83
APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF
CLAYTON CARVALHO, JR. TO THE
ENVIRONMENTAL SEAT ON THE HANA
ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE MAUI
PUXNNING COMMISSION
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, second by Member Molina, to waive the Rules of
the Council 7.G.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Given that the term for this seat begins on
April 1, 2022, I’m proposing that we consider this resolution today. Approval of my
motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Council will allow us to do
so.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? if not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye". To waive the Rule of the Council.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay, i see nine "ayes'
Mr. Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 161
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-83.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member SInenci, seconded by Member Molina, to adopt the
Resolution 22-83.
Discussion. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Member Molina. Your GREAT Committee met on
March 2, 2022, to discuss this matter. In Section 2.28.050 of the Maui County Code
requires five members and up to t\wo alternates of each advisory committee to the Maui
Planning Commission to, to be appointed by the Council by resolution. A person
appointed to any advisory committee must be a resident of the relevant community
plan area.
Section 2.28.070 further requires that at least one member of the Hana Advisory
Committee to have experience or expertise in environmental matters, such as
conservation, natural resources, or climate change.
Mr. Carvalho is a long time Hana resident \A/ho previously served on the Hana Advisory
Committee in 2012-2017. He was previously employed by Hana Ranch and Hana
Water Systems, LLC, where he gained experience in livestock, vegetation
management, farming operations, water resource management.
Mr. Carvalho also volunteers with organizations such as the Hana Community
Association, the Hawaii Farmers Union United (Hana Chapter), the Hana Youth
Center, and coaches basketball at Hana High School. Members, because of his
experience and his willingness to serve his community of Hana, I respectfully ask for
the Members support in adopting this resolution today.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please say "aye",
raise your hand.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTiN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 162
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with bills. You have, the following bills are
recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 60 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES, RATES. ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE. GENERAL FUND,
SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES
The recommended action is that Bill No. 60 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 60 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 163 through 168 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 62 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO A SHORT-TERM RENTAL REAL
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR COUNTY RESIDENTS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 62 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 163
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 64 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE COSTS,
BOND ISSUANCE AND DEBT SERVICE;
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 64 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 64 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 168 through 170 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 63 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.12,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO COUNTY DEPARTMENTS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 63 (2022) be referred to the Government Relations
Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE; Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 60 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I move to, oh sorry. Consideration
of Bill 60, a bill for an ordinance amending the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget regarding
Special License Plates fees.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 164
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 60 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
waive the Rules of the Council with regard to Bill 60.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, this came down, or came from
the State Legislature to amend the fee for Special License Plates. So, not like the
Hokulea License Plate, but this is like the, you know, the custom plates. Anyway, so,
it's a fee that came from, via State Statute and we can't amend it. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? This is on the waiver. All those in favor of the motion
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO PASS BILL 60 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 165
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
pass Bill 60 on first reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this bill would amend the
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix B, Revenues - Fees, Rates, Assessments and
Taxes for the Department of Finance, by increasing the rate for Special License Plates
from $25 to $60.
Section 249-9, Hawaii Revised Statutes, set the fees for special number plates at $60
for both initial obligation and renewal of the vehicle registration.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any of the questions
Members may have. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion, questions, Members?
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, for renewals, it'll be $60 instead of $25?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah. So, it says for both the initial
application and the renewal of the vehicle registration.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: These are ones, like I just was driving behind a guy today and
it had just the number "1". So, those types of ones? Not like the "NP" or the? Okay,
got it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Interesting that it’s $60 and the bill is 60. But
no, 1 just wanted to ask you about, this is, when we see special plates, you have,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 166
referring to the, like the one that just came out for the Polynesian Voyaging Society?
Okay. Cause my, we just got two of them, which by the way, they're beautiful. People
should get one if you don't have one. But those are 20. So I just wanted to make sure
that was, it didn't affect those. Okay. We're just talking about the Special License
Plates people get, what we call vanity plates when they get a word or something. Okay.
Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. If they want to put their name on it or
something.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Just to clarify to the public. That doesn't apply to the, the
license plate for the volcano license or the PVS one.
CHAIR LEE: How did you get your two license plates?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You have to make an appointment at the DMV.
CHAIR LEE: Wow.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's the only way you can get it. And then, it's really quick,
because you have an appointment, so you don't have to wait in line. You just go in
and get it. They're really nice.
CHAIR LEE: I know. I want one.
Okay, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So, I guess this one would be a question for
Finance. So, so these, these, the license plate, the increase in the cost of the license
plates is for people like us, I mean, residents, right? So, do those that drive around
with plates like Electric Company, or some company that has 10 or 12 cars, or trucks,
or whatever is, are their license plates going to be increased, too?
CHAIR LEE: Who are you asking?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Finance.
CHAIR LEE: Finance? Is Finance on?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: DMV guys.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 167
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Teruya, are you still on the call?
Director Yoshimura, do you want to take that?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'm here. Sorry, Chair. Councilmember Kama--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: --could you please repeat your question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I was wondering if, cause I haven't read the reso.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SCOTT TERUYA: Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes?
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Chair. I'm here.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Iwasjust-
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Yes, I heard the question.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, thank you.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: These increased fees from $25 to $60 only affect custom license
plates.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh, custom? Okay.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: So, those commercial, commercial fleets are not considered
custom.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: Yeah. You're welcome.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 168
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else? Ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: One. two, three, four, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Anything else, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 64 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, mahalo, Chair. Consideration on Bill 64, a bill
for an ordinance amending the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget for the County of Maui as it
pertains to estimated revenues, bond issuance, operating and total, operating and
capital improvement projects.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 64 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill 64.
Discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This is another bill that needs to be
taken up before budget session.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 169
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes'zero "noes": motion carries,
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 64 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to pass
Bill 64 on first reading.
Any discussion, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, this bill would amend the
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget by increasing the estimated revenues for Transient
Accommodation Tax by $3,100,000 and appropriating the funds to Countywide Costs,
Bond Issuance and Debt Service.
These funds would be used for the principal payment for debt service related to the
most recent bond issuance in August 2021, which his due on June 30, 2022.
We, again, we have Budget Director Yoshimura and Finance Director Teruya on the
line if Members have questions. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, vice, I mean, not Vice-Chair, but Member Paltin. And Director Yoshimura
are on the on the line? Your question for her, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 170
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Yoshimura. I just wanted
to clarify. This is for what we've collected from when we started TAT until the end of
this fiscal year. It's not for, we're doing the budget for Fiscal Year '23? We're in Fiscal
Year '22 right now, and it's appropriating the money from this fiscal year, and we
haven't appropriated anything for the fiscal year that we're going into, that's 23?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Councilmember Paltin, yes, you are correct.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. I just wanted to .. .
CFIAIR LEE: I have a question. Director, if you're using the TAT funds for this bond payment,
what, what were you planning to use previously? I mean, you know, the TAT funds
are, are a recent revenue source.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. Chair, I would have had to look to see if I could cancel any cash
CIP projects or defer any type of other payments that we would have had to make.
The error was in the calculation, and mistakenly assumed that it was going to be a
July 1 payment versus a June 30 payment, and therefore, puts it in a different fiscal
year.
CFIAIR LEE: I see. Yeah, so this was a kind of an unexpected payment then?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes. With the bond float that we did in August 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Anybody else? Everybody ready for the vote? Ready? All
those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Aye, everybody. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay, you got your three million.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you. Thank you, Members.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 171
CHAIR LEE; Have fun shopping.
Alright, Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Chair, before proceeding, we just want to confirm with the body
that there are no objections to the other two referrals as read by the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE; Are there any objections to the other two referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; No objections.So, ordered.
Chair, proceeding with bills for second and final reading.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
BILLS ~ SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 147. EDI (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, ADOPTING DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
FOR THE ISLAND OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 147, FD1 (2021) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 172
CHAIR LEE: 2022, right? Alright. Second and final reading. What?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 2021. because there were some anomalies.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I have a 2022 here. So, 2021, you said. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Your Planning-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait. It's been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Kama, to
pass Bill 147, FD1 (2021) on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on October 21, 2021, to discuss a bill entitled, "A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.06.020, MAUI COUNTY CODE, ADOPTING
DIGITAL ZONING MAP (3) AS THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FOR THE ISLAND OF
MAUI".
The purpose of the bill is to adopt digital zoning map (3) as the official zoning map for
the island of Maui. Map (3) includes two corrections to map (2) which was adopted by
the Council. And one of them was made by the Council, as well.
Your Committee further notes the Maui Planning Commission reviewed the proposed
bill at its meeting on August 10, 2021, and voted unanimously to support the bill with
the following revisions: zoning for a portion of the Paia Courtyard project, established
through Ordinance 5111 (2020), which was inadvertently zoned "Public/Quasi-Public".
Not one or two, just that. Zoning for a 19.99-acre parcel in Hana, tax map key
(2) 1-4-011:016, from Agriculture to Interim.
Your Committee added two conditions regarding a portion of the Paia Courtyard
project, such that: The zoning condition in Ordinance 5111 will remain in full effect,
unless repealed by a separate zoning ordinance; and a new unilateral agreement be
executed to correct the zoning for a portion of the Paia Courtyard project from
"Public/Quasi-Public" to "P-1 Public/Quasi-Public".
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of the bill on first reading,
recordation of the unilateral agreement, and filing of the communication.
Bill 147 (2021) passed first reading at the November 19, 2021, Council meeting.
Following the meeting, the State Bureau of Conveyances returned the First
Amendment to the Unilateral Agreement and Declaration for Conditional Zoning dated
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 173
July 31, 2020, stating the document needed to cite the, to the original Unilateral
Agreement number.
The First Amendment to Unilateral Agreement was amended and resubmitted.
Bill 147, FD1 (2021) was passed on first reading by Council on February 18, 2022, by
8-0 vote, one excused. State Bureau of Conveyances has confirmed recordation of
the First Amendment to the Unilateral Agreement, and so I respectfully ask for the
Members support of my motions.
CHAIR LEE: Any discussion? Ready to vote? Everybody ready to vote "aye"? All those in
favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Member King?
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, you have-
CHAIRLEE; Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 51 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
(COUNTYWIDE DRAINLINE REPLACEMENT PROGRAM,
COUNTYWIDE ROAD RESURFACING AND PAVEMENT PRESERVATION
(OKOLANl CULVERT REPAIRS))
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 174
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 51 ON, (2022), ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to pass
Bill 51 on second and final reading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, Bill 51 (2022) amends
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix C for the Department of Public Works, including
Okolani Culvert Repairs for the Countywide drain, Drainline Replacement Program and
Countywide Road Resurfacing and Pavement Preservation. I ask for the Members
continued support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I think this is the one that we heard from
a testifier about potential damage from this drainage route to cultural sites. And I just
wanted to check and see, because I don't remember, I may not have been at the
meeting when this came up the first time, I just wanted to ask Member Rawlins-
Fernandez if any concerns were brought up in the previous, or first reading or the
Committee? Just it's a little bit concerning to me that we're just hearing about this now
where there might be potential, if do we have DPW on? Can we ask them?
CHAIR LEE: Well, the closest to DPW is Director Michele Yoshimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Hi Michele, can, can you speak to that? I mean, I, I don't
know what the solution would be at this point. I mean, I know we need, we need repairs
because we have all these post-storm damage issues. But does, it is concerning that
there may be cultural sites that maybe experience some damage from this drainage
route.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 175
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'm, I'm not familiar with it. I could get an answer for you from Public
Works.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we get a, can we just, can we make an inquiry to see if they
have any knowledge of, or are seeking any knowledge of any cultural sites that may
be damaged from this, this drainage route?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Okay. I will, I will try to get them on the, on the call.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That would be great. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, let's table this for now and go skip over this one. Did you want to take
up another one, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I can withdraw my motion, or, or
table it, whichever you'd prefer, so that we can take up the other two. Member King's
going to make the motion on the next two bills, while we wait for a response, if we're
able to get one.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we'll just table it. We'll just table it.
Okay, so Mr. Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Cause, yeah, I didn't hear anything. Any, what
Member King was talking about.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you didn't?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, you didn't hear the, the testimony today, earlier?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Was that Ms. de Naie?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. I didn’t know she was talking about this one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, this is the one she was talking about.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 176
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's move on.
Mr. Clerk.
(See pages 178 through 179 for discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 57 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,
ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think that's me.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You're going to make the motion on this?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, but 1 . . . can we also ask, can I also request the Clerk call
up Bill 58 with no objections?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to calling up Bill 58 as well?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, so ordered.
Mr. Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 58 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUi ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL
PROGRAMS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 177
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 57 AND 58 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member King, second by Member Sinenci, to pass Bills 58 and, 57
and 58 on second and final reading.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Both Bills 57 and 58 include budget
amendments for the South Maui District Funds. These measures will free up Fiscal
Year 2022 funds to allow grant application, applicants to receive approvals so they can
begin their work prior to the start of Fiscal Year 2023.
At, at the March 4, 2022, Council meeting, Members unanimously voted to waive the
requirement of Committee referral and report and pass both bills on first reading.
And the first bill reduces the Fourth Friday amount from 20,000 to 10,000, because
they apparently are still trying to get this event going for the rest of the year, but there's
not that much of the rest of the year left, so they won't need the full 20,000.
The second bill, as you heard from Mr. Moran, is the $10,000 for the green bike paths.
And there was, they were just having a lot of difficulty trying to get that going. So, DPW
agreed to take that project over and do it themselves if we just put that 10,000 into
DPW. So, I respectfully ask for the Council's support in passing these bills today.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye",
this is to pass Bills 57 and 58 on second and final reading. "Aye", raise your hand, so
I can see.
Alright. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 178
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now, we'll return to Bill 51. Director Yoshimura, do you have an answer
for us?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 51 (2022)
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you, Chair. Per Acting Director Molina, he did say that they're,
they're not in the cultural, in the culvert area. So, I'm waiting for him to respond to
another question that I had, sorry. But it sounds like they're aware, and it's not in the
area where the repairs are needed.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Is that satisfactory. Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you for making that inquiry. Director. I, I do think that, just
to make DPW aware, that I think part of the concern was not necessarily where the
repairs are being made, but where the water is draining out of. So, just, you know, just
want them to be aware to, you know, to look at that drainage route.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, are we ready to take a vote on this? Are we ready to take a vote
on this?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes, I can support it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. All those in favor of passing Bill 51 on second and final reading
raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18. 2022
Page 179
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Oh, we reached the end of the calendar, I think. Mr. Clerk, did we reach the end of the
calendar?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any parting words? Nice words. Anybody getting
married? No?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Just thank Member Molina for his opening remarks today. That
I think, you know, when we consistently think about who we are and what we’d like to
reflect upon, and what we as a Council are, and when we think about that throughout
the day. And that really helps to lead and to guide our discussions and, you know, how
far we want to really push things, or how much we want to hold back. And so, 1 think,
you know, having those kinds of opening remarks in the morning is really helpful to us
and it really carries us through the day. So, thank you, Member Molina, for that. I
appreciate that.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. 1, I wanted to offer the Council's condolences
to our friend Carol Lee Kamekona, who is a frequent testifier. And she recently lost
her mother and that's why she had a difficult time testifying today. But 1 want to also
give her kudos for coming out on some important issues and testifying despite, you
know, through her grief. And just want to let her know that we're all thinking of her and
sympathize and send her our deepest sympathies.
CHAIR LEE: I'm glad you mentioned that cause she did sound, you know, sad and, or upset
and didn't know why. We didn't know, I didn't know why.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you very much. 1,1 wondered also. So, yeah,
extend our condolences. And I wanted to thank Chair Lee. She spoke in behalf of the
Council at the State of the County Address, and she gave such a good message to,
you know, open up, and brought the Council and the Administration to, you know,
working together. And you want to, you know, that was a great speech that you did.
And thank you very much for representing us.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 18, 2022
Page 180
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, my job was to introduce him, but I certainly didn't
want to give him all the credit. Anything else? Anybody going to Las Vegas or
something?
Oh, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. You know, I. I. I think Councilmember
Kelly King really hit the nail on the head, you know, Carol Lee Kamekona's voice. And
that, that kind of made me think of how important our testifiers are. And 1, you know, I
know we all work here nine, you know, all around the clock there, our Council works
really hard, and our staff works really hard. But  Igot to give a shoutout to all the
testifiers who come in just like clockwork and, and, you know, they, they influence. I
listen to them, you know. They, this body is open to listening to our, our constituents.
And they, they are a integral part of this process in shaping, shaping the laws that we
make. So, I just want to thank everybody who comes in testifying either first time or
100th time. You guys are doing a great job. Please keep it up. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Well said. Anyone else? Okay. So, it seems like we're at the end of the
calendar and end of the remarks for today. So, whatever time it, what time is it, folks?
I never have the right time, so I have to ask.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: 42. 4:43. Just turned to 3.
CHAIR LEE: 4:43. This meeting of March 18, 2022, is now adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of March 18, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 4:43 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220318/lks:jm
F^EC /ED
To: Alice Lee, Chairperson, and Council Members im m !8 ah 7:
From: Tamar Goodfellow : .-icr: OF T
CLE
Re: Resolution 22-84, Authorizing the disposition of real property for
housing and land enterprise of Maui, dba Na Hale  0maui and for waiver
of outstanding real property taxes
I n'c
f<
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members,
I am writing to ask your support of Resolution 22-84, which would
provide 19 lots in the Fairways in Maui Lani to Na Hale 0 Maui (NHOM]
for desperately needed affordable work force housing.
Na Hale 0 Maui has a proven and impressive track record of getting
homes built and getting families into them. NHOM builds a long term
relationship with all of their home owners, helping to ensure they are
not only able to purchase a home, but also able to successfully manage a
mortgage and the numerous other challenges that come with first time
home ownership.
It is no secret that Maui has a housing crisis. Hardest hit are our
workforce: teachers, nurses, police officers, technicians, etc. Hard
working individuals and families that earn too much to qualify for low
income housing opportunities, but not enough to qualify for market
priced homes. These people are the life blood of our island community
and culture, and we are rapidly losing them to the mainland due almost
exclusively to our lack of affordable workforce housing.
The lots at Maui Lani are an opportunity waiting to happen. They have
been sitting empty for many years, while families desperately need
homes. While I recognize that it is important to engage all stakeholders
in trying to resolve the old issues that have plagued this property, it
should not stand in the way of creating homes.
I strongly urge you to support Resolution 22-84.
Mahalo,
Tamar Goodfellow
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
Tamar Goodfellow <tamar(o)chotzGn.com>
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 1:13 PM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; Melinda Sweany;
Cassandra Chavez; Tamar Goodfellow
Resolution 22-85 Authorizing the disposition of real property tci^he'.Maui ^alth
Foundation and for waiver of outstanding real property taxeso-c ~
To:
Subject:
3s»
ZSD
-1m o
I -<
CYou don't often get email from tamar@chotzen.com. Learn whv this is important
To: Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members of the Maui County Council
O- n -o
^'1
roa) ou;
From: Tamar Goodfellow, President, Maui Health Foundation i  ●
CN
Re: Support for "CR 22-85, authorizing the disposition of real property to the Maui Health Foundation and for
waiver of outstanding real property taxes"
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Council Members,
My name is Tamar Goodfellow. I serve as the volunteer President of the Maui Health Foundation, a 25 year old non
profit organization whose sole mission is to support the highest quality of health care at Maui Memorial Medical
Center, Kula Hospital and Lanai.
My devotion to our hospital and to health care on our island stems from a personal passion to save lives here on
Maui. With only one acute care hospital, Maui Memorial is the place that each of us, our family members, our
friends, and our visitors will go in a life threatening medical emergency. I want it to be the best
This is why I am asking for your support for the transfer of these lots.
♦
Each year our only hospital cares for more than 40,000 patients, including those on medicare, quest/medicaid, the
underinsured and uninsured. No one is turned away.
*
Maui Memorial has the second busiest emergency department in the state of Hawaii, second only to Queens.
*
Quality of care directly correlates to Care Providers. Island wide, we are short hundreds of doctors, nurses,
technicians and aides. This shortage of Care Providers is a
growing issue nationwide, but Maui is particularly challenged with recruiting and retaining Care Providers. Right
now the hospital is short staffed in every department.
The single biggest barrier to recruiting and keeping Care Providers on Maui is the lack of housing at all income
levels.
*
1
The County of Maui owns 55 lots in Maui Lani, walking distance from the hospital. The Maui Health Foundation is
asking for your support to provide 16 of those lots to be held in perpetuity by the Foundation for Care Provider
housing.
Our program will be modeled after Na Hale 0 Maui. The land will be held in perpetuity by the Foundation. Homes
will be built by a home builder, and sold to care providers
at leasehold rates, meaning less the value of the land, and the restriction that future buyers must also be care
providers. This makes the homes, first, available nearby
the hospital, and second, attainable.
All healthcare providers are eligible. [They do not need to be hospital employees]. If applicants are below the 140
AMI, they will be directed to NHOM. If they are above
140 AMI, they will be asked to get pre-qualified for a mortgage and be part of the Foundation lottery.
* Selection criteria will be weighted by the following criteria: greatest community need (as determined by annual
healthcare survey); Maui or Hawaii born
Care Provider seeking to return home; current resident Care Provider seeking to purchase their first home.
* Home buyers will own the home and improvements, but not the land. They will pay a monthly leasehold fee,
determined to cover the management costs of the
program/property.
When a home owner sells, there will be a shared appreciation where the home owner will retain at least 50% of
any equity in the home, (less the land value). The formula will be modeled after NHOM. They must sell to another
qualified Care Provider.
There is a critical need for housing for Care Providers that may save your life, or that of someone you love. I am
happy to try and answer any questions you might have, but before I close, I would like to share a quote from Dr.
Rafael Oania, a Board Certified Anesthesiologist, born and raised on Maui.
"It is a dream of mine to be able to come home to Maui to practice medicine. After years of training in New York
City, 1 was ready to bring my talents back to Maui. However, the harsh reality of the housing crisis in Maui has
steered me away from this dream. It's sad to think that a well paid physician isn't even able to afford or find an
affordable home in Maui. It is a concern that not only affects the recruitment of physicians but the prosperity of the
entire working class and families who are at risk of being unable to live a reasonable life on the island that they
have called home for generations.”
Mahalo for considering the passage of Resolution 22-85.
2
RECn\'ED
Ha e O KAaumi m i? pm i= ‘toT Y LAND TRUSTU N
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKMarch 17, 2022
Alice Lee, Chairperson
Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
via: countv.clerk@mauicountv.us
Subject: Resolution 22-85, Authorizing the Disposition of Real Property for Maui Health
Foundation and for Waiver of Outstanding Real Property Taxes
Dear Chairperson Lee and Council Members:
Please authorize the disposition of 16 lots in the Fairways in Maui Lani to Maui Health
Foundation (MHF) and waive any outstanding real property taxes.
Maui is at a critical juncture in Health Care. Physicians, especially in crucial specialty areas, are
desperately needed to provide the highest level and quality of care for our community. Maui has
a shortfall of care providers island wide and the hospital is short-staffed in every department.
This has an impact on the delivery of life-saving medical care for us ail.
Each one of us needs access to excellent medical care and potential emergency medical
treatment. Without essential physicians and other important health care providers on- island,
Maui residents are forced to fly to Oahu or beyond. Some specialties are not permanently
available in the state, forcing patients and their families to relocate to the mainland where
specialists are available on a daily basis.
The need for housing at affordable prices occurs at every level of our community. MHF
continues to be frustrated in its mission to provide the highest quality of health care, the inability
to attract and keep great physicians and medical personnel, because of the Maui housing
market.
Na Hale 0 Maui strongly supports affordable and workforce housing initiatives and
developments. We believe working in collaboration with MHF makes perfect sense for this
project and our community. NHOM's program can accommodate workforce households that
earn up to 140% of AMI, including health care providers like nurses, therapists and others.
Working coltaboratively with the County of Maui and Maui Health Foundation, we will deliver
critically needed housing to medical professionals and workforce that will keep our community
healthy and thriving.
We ask for your support to authorize the disposition of 16 lots in the Fairways in Maui Lani to
Maui Health Foundation and waive any outstanding real property taxes,
Mahalo piha for your support of affordable housing for our workforce, medical professionals and
Cassandra Abdul
Exec-utive Diiector
190 N. Church Street, P.O. Box 1829, Wailuku, HI 96793 ● Ph. 808.244.6110 ● Fox 808.244.6115 ● www.nohaieonouj.org
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
Cassandra Abdul <cassandra@nahaleomaui.org>
Friday, March 18, 2022 11:33 AM
County Clerk
22-02-15_Maui Lani Fairways - Lots Phasing.pdf
22-02-15_Maui Lani Fairways - Lots Phasing.pdf; Maui Lani Fairways Lots Table (Rev).pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha kockou,
The written testimony Na Hale 0 Maui included 26 letters submitted by supporters including homeowners, Qualified
Buyers, those participating in our 4-Step program, and community member,
attached please find the map requested by Council Member Sinenci.
Please note that the blue lots are those that will remain with the County as we work to resolve community concerns.
The green lots are those that the resolution addresses for Na Hale 0 Maui (black numerals) and Maui Health Foundation
(blue numerals.)
The list of lots are also attached for your convenience.
Please let us know if we can provide any additional information to assist in your decision making.
Mahalo piha, for all you do.
Cassandra O Oo
IT]3a-
Cassandra J Leolani Abdul
Executive Directors Principal Broker
Na Hale 0 Maui
190 N. Church Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Ph. 808.244.6110
Mobile 808.304.3533
H n-< CD
oo 3»-
nirn
O.7^ n >0
To learn more about Na Hale 0 Maui and to make a donation please visit https://www.nahaieomaui.org
Changing lives, one home at a time.
Mission: To secure and preserve a permanent supply of affordable housing alternatives for low and moderate income
households in Maui County.
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information in this message may be proprietary and/or confidential, and is intended only
for the use of the individual(s) to whom this email is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that any use, dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have
received this communication in error, please notify us immediately by replying to this email and deleting this email from
your computer. Nothing contained in this email or any attachment shall satisfy the requirements for contract formation
or constitute an electronic signature.
1

The Fairways at Maui Lani
Lot PhaseTMK EntitySq Ft.
(2) 3-8-096-0011 9122 Na Hale 0 Maui1
2 (2) 3-8-096-002 8580 Na Hale 0 Maui1
3 (2) 3-8-096-003 8680 Na Hale 0 Maui1
(2) 3-8-096-0044 8543 Na Hale 0 Maui1
(2) 3-8-096-0055 8590 Na Hale 0 Maui1
(2) 3-8-096-0066 8574 Na Hale 0 Maui1
(2) 3-8-096-0077 8571 Na Hale 0 Maui1
(2) 3-8-096-0088 Hospital Foundation9634 1
(2) 3-8-096-0099 Hospital Foundation8481 1
(2) 3-8-096-01010 Hospital Foundation8394 1
(2) 3-8-096-01111 Hospital Foundation8381 1
(2)3-8-096-01212 Hospital Foundation8313 1
(2) 3-8-096-01313 Hospital Foundation8377 1
(2) 3-8-096-014 Hospital Foundation14 8318 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-01515 8342 1
(2) 3-8-096-016 Hospital Foundation16 9215 1
(2) 3-8-096-017 Hospital Foundation853317 1
(2) 3-8-096-018 Hospital Foundation18 8908 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-01919 8953 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-02020 9042 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-02121 9018 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-02222 11305 1
Hospital Foundation(2) 3-8-096-02323 21844 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-024 1002724 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-025 9109 125
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-026 13322 126
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-02727 12807 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-02828 11477 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-02929 8260 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-030 7884 130
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-031 6914 131
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-03232 9525 1
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-033 133 11994
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-034 8017 234
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-03535 8858 2
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-036 11558 236
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-037 9733 237
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-038 238 8480
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-039 7591 239
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-040 240 6989
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-041 6862 241
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-042 242 6728
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-043 6757 243
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-044 6755 244
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-045 6728 245
The Fairways at Maui Lani
Phase EntityTMKLot
Sq_F^
6728 County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-046 246
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-047 6728 247
County of Maui6803 2(2) 3-8-096-04848
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-049 6936 249
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-050 7081 250
County of Maui(2) 3-8-096-051 21004 Onsite Basin51
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-052 Driveway404152
Na Hale 0 Maui(2) 3-8-096-053 3193 Driveway53
County of MauiRoadway - Puumakani St(2) 3-8-096-054 8957554
County of MauiRoadway - Kea St(2) 3-8-096-055 862055
RE: CR 22-26 RELATING TO CHARTER AMENDMENTS FROM 2021-2022 MAUI COUNTY CHARTER COMMISSION
FINAL REPORT (GREAT-52)
FROM: Dick Mayer 18-March-2022
Aloha Council Members,
RE: Charter Commission proposal number 6 regarding the Maui Planning Commission:
I am going to use the table below to help council members understand why they should NOT prevent a second member
of the Upcountry area to be a member of the Maui Planning Commission just because they do not live in a
district touching the ocean.
SMA actions are only one of the many decisions that planning commissioners make. The Commission advises the Council
on all land use ordinances, they review community plans, approve environmental documents, decide on project districts
hold public hearings, and many other matters.
I ask you to reverse the Committee decision in Section 8-8.4. Planning Commissions. Use the following language for Proposal #6.
The nine members must include at least one and no more than two members who reside in each council
residency area on the island of Maui. [; except that when there are two members from a council residency area, at least one
of the members must reside in the special management area].
Resident Population + Voters Maui's House Districts, 2020
2010
Resident
Population
2020
Resident
Population
2020 2020
Registered
Voters
Nov-
2020
Voters
Registerd2010 to 2020
Population
Increase
Voted vs.
Registered
Registered
vs. Age 18+
Voted vs.
Age 18+
House
District Age 18
and Over
District description VS.
Population
Wailuku, Kahakuloa Waihee. Waiehu Puuohala.
Waikapo 26,927 2,973 29,900 22,967 19,870 13,611 68.5% 86.5% 59.3% 66.5%8
Kahului, Puunene, Old Sand Hills, Maui Lanr 27,044 2,076 29,120 22,202 14,708 9,490 64.5% 66.2% 42.7% 50.5%9
24,585West Maul, Maalaea. North l^hei 974 25,559 20,477 16,685 10,384 62.2% 81.5% 50.7% 65.3%10
Klhel, Wailsa. Mskena 24,815 748 25,563 21,243 18,485 11,975 64.8% 87.0% 56.4% 72.3%11
Upcountry, Spreckelsville Pukalani Makawao
Kula Keokea. Ulupalakua 25,551 2,244 27,795 21,918 19,789 14,145 71.5% 90,3% 64.5% 71.2%12
MUlti'ISland, Haiku. Hana. Kaupo. Kipahulu.
Nahiku. Paia. Kahoolawe. Lanai Molokai. Molokini 25,998 901 26,899 21,004 18,393 12,048 65.5% 87.6% 57.4% 68,4%13
Maui County Total154,920 9,916 164,836129,811107,930 71,653 66.2% 83,2% 55.2% 65.7%
Source U S Census Bureau 2020 Census Redistricting Data (Public Law 94-171) Summary File Legacy Data Format (August 2021); calculations by the Hawaii State
Department of Business Economic Development & Tourism. Hawaii State Data Center District descriptions from the Hawaii State Legislature
<https y/www.capitol hawau gov/members/legislators a9px?chamber=all> accessed August 24, 2021
VOTERS: https;//<lections.hawan.eov/wi>-corrt*nt/results/hi sov.pdf
Count^ClerJ<
From:
Sent:
Nane <nwaluli@mauian.com>
Monday, March 14, 2022 8:06 PM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Mike J.
Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
Melinda A Sweany; Cassie Chavez; Tamar Goodfellow'; Nane Aluli
Testimony For Resolution 22-85
To:
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from nwaluli@mauian.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Maui Council Members,
Re: Resolution 22-85
My name is Nane Aluli. I am a resident of Wailuku and a Native Hawaiian descendant of a well know family from
Lahaina, the Farden family.
We are very fortunate to live in one of the most beautiful places in the world, the island of Maui. However, you realize
as I do, that the healthcare facilities here are challenged with a shortage of professional staff, doctors and nurses. This
shortage is being exacerbated by the cost and availability of housing.
That is why I am asking you to support the Maui Lani resolution.
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place on this island that can provide critical, lifesaving care to our residents
and our visitors, and we do so for all who come through our doors. For those with the most critical needs, there is often
no other option. They do not have the time to delay treatment or the strength to make the trip to another island to
receive care.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is currently short 160 physicians in specialties ranging from family and internal
medicine to oncology, heart and lung surgery, orthopedics and urology.
In addition, MMMC is short 75 registered nurses, despite hiring every single graduate of the University of Hawaii Maui
College, every year.
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for ail on Maui.
Those who care for our community need to live in our community. Having a supply of homes will help ease the need for
market-priced housing for the medical providers Maui desperately needs.
This will enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet the greatest healthcare needs in our community, allow
Maui-born medical professionals who wish to return home to practice medicine to do so, and retain current Maui care
providers looking to purchase their first home on Maui.
OO
0--iThat is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani Resolution 22-85. 70
C jj
z: mX-
Mahalo for your concern and consideration. . j
●; m
O/HccU 0-- 5:r,r~
General Manager
The Mauian Hotel
rn
"J aK.n
●o
1
Count^GeHc pc
Lokahi Antonio <beantoni@ksbe.edu>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 12:04 PM
County Clerk
'Olelo Hawaii Sl 'Oiwi Cultural Resources
From:
Sent: 202? HAR 17 PH 12- 34
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from beantoni@ksbe.edu. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Belarmino Antonio, Jr., testifying on agenda item CR 22-26.1 want to testify in strong support of sending
Proposal 8, to create a Department of 'Oiwi Resources, to the ballot.
Plant the seed now, enjoy the fruits later.
Mahalo.
This message is the property of Kamehameha Schools and any attachments are confidential to the intended recipient at
the e-mail address to which it has been addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, you may not copy, forward,
disclose or use any part of this message or its attachments. If you received this transmission in error please notify the
sender immediately by e-mail or contact Kamehameha Schools at webmaster@ksbe.edu and then delete this message
from your system.
1
Count^CleiJc iVTID
20?? HAR 17 PH 2> 19
From:
Sent:
Kapulani Antonio <kapulani66@gmail.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 2:17 PM
County Clerk
Proposal 8 testimony
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from kapuiani66@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha. ‘O ko‘u inoa ‘o Kapulani Antonio. Pili keia ‘olelo ho‘ike i ka CR 22-26. Ke kako‘o piha aku nei au i ka
‘apono ‘ia ‘ana o ke Noi 8 i ka paloka, no ka ho‘okumu ‘ana he M^ele Kumu Waiwai ‘Oiwi.
‘O ka ‘Olelo Hawai‘i ka ‘olelo o ka ‘aina nei. Ma mua o ka hiki ‘ana mai o ka po‘e haole, ‘o ka ‘Olelo Hawai‘i
ka leo o ka ‘aina. Ma hope o ka ho‘okahuli aupuni  ikamakahiki 1893, ua kau ke aupuni hou, he po‘e ‘e no
waho mai ho‘i, i na kanawai e ‘T mai ana, ma o ka ‘olelo Pelekania e a‘o ‘ia ai na papa ma loko o na kula aupuni
a me na kula ku‘oko‘a. Ma muli o ke kolonaio ‘ia  ame ka ho‘oIikelike ha‘akoi ‘ia, ua lilo loa aku ka mauli o na
hanauna Hawai‘i he nui i ka nele aku i ka ‘olelo makuahine ‘ole. 1 ka ‘Aha Kumu K^awai o ka makahiki 1978
i lilo ai ka ‘Olelo Hawai‘i he ‘olelo kuhelu o ka Moku‘aina o Hawai‘i. Mahalo i ka ‘ike mai, eia na‘e ma hope o
na makahiki he 44, ma waho aku o ka ho‘okomo ‘ana  ina ‘okina me na kahako i na papa alanui a me ka ‘apono
‘ana i ka mahina ‘o Pepeluali, ‘o ia ka mahina ‘olelo Hawai‘i, ‘a‘ole nui na mea i hana ‘ia e ka Moku‘aina (a me
na Kalana) no ke kako‘o ‘ana i ke aupuni palua maoli no. He aha ka waiwai o ke kapa wale ‘ana aku i ka ‘Olelo
Hawai‘i he ‘olelo kuhelu?
He kokua nui ka ho‘ouna aku i ke Noi 8 no ke koho paloka ‘ia ‘ana ma ka ho‘okulike ‘ana me ke ‘ano mau o ke
aupuni, ma ka ho‘oia ‘ana i ka ‘Olelo Hawai‘i, he ‘olelo ola no, a ma ka ho‘oia‘i‘o i ka ‘olelo ‘oiwi o Hawai‘i
pae‘aina i na malihini kipa mai a me ka po‘e ne‘e mai ho‘i.
Mahalo i kou maliu ‘ana mai i keia Noi nui n5.
Me ka mahalo a me ka ‘oia‘i‘o,
Kapulani Antonio
No Makawao
Aloha. My name is Kapulani Antonio. The following testimony pertains to agenda item CR 22-26. I strongly
support sending Proposal 8 to the ballot to create a Department of ‘Oiwi Resources.
The ‘Olelo Hawai‘i is the language of this land. Prior to Western contact, ‘Olelo Hawai‘i was the means of
communication. Following the overthrow of the Hawaiian government in 1893, the new government comprised
of foreign settlers created laws declaring the English language the medium of instruction in public and private
schools. As a result of colonization and forced assimilation, generations of Hawaiians lost their identity because
they could no longer speak their mother tongue. At the 1978 Hawai‘i State Constitutional Convention, ‘Olelo
Hawai‘i was made an official language of the State of Hawai‘i. Wlrile the recognition is appreciated, forty-four
years later, other than creating street signs with proper diacritical markings, and designating February as
Hawaiian language month, the Slate (and Counties) have done little to support a true bilingual government.
What is the value of making Hawaiian an official state language in name only?
1
Sending proposal 8 to ballot will help in the effort to normalize 'Olelo Hawai‘i in government, to legitimize
‘Olelo as a living language and to validate Hawai‘i's indigenous language and culture to visitors and settlers.
Mahalo for your consideration of this hugely important Proposal.
Me ka mahalo a me ka ‘oia‘i‘o,
Kapulani Antonio
Resident of Makawao
2
REC ’\/ED^ r
Count^Clerk
2022 HAR 18 AH 7: 46From:
Sent:
Char Casserley <mauicass@aol.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 8:17 PM
County Clerk
Bill 62
To: OrnCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from mauicass@aol.com. Learn why this is important
<http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification>
Aloha County Council,
I am submitting testimony in favor of Bill 62,
This bill gives Hawaii residents and Maui residents a process to become legitimate small businesses owners serving Maui
visitors. I have a permitted short term rental and have been in business for six years. My business supports other small
business owners here on Maui and my tax dollars stay here to support our local community.
My experience has been many travelers prefer to stay in a personal home rather than a large resort. These guests have
a greater appreciation for the culture and aina as they have direct contact with residents. They are curious and desire to
be respectful and understand the island way of life.
As our state is moving away from increasing number of travelers, this bill allows a means for residents to be small
business owners and provide a quality experience for guests. I support this bill as it provides opportunity for more small
business to thrive, it keeps our tax dollars in the state, in provides a unique experience for visitors, and our future
generations can inherit a family owned business.
Thank you for the opportunity to share my point of view.
Char Casserley
Maui resident and business owner
Permit #STMP 2015/0002
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Cassie Chavez <Cassie.Chavez@kp.org>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 9;24 AM
Melinda A Sweany; County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe
Johnson; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei
Sugimura; tamar@chotzen.com
Support for "CR 22-85, authorizing the disposition of real property to the Maui Health
Foundation and for waiver of outstanding real property taxes"
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from cassie.chavez@kp.org. Learn why this is important
To; Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members of the Maui County Council
My name is Cassie Chavez, and I am a Development Manager at Maui Health Foundation.
I was born and raised on Maui and have been blessed to cal! this island my home. As with many local
families, I have had several family members cared for at Maui Memorial, and my four children were
born here. From an early age, I realized how critical sufficient health care was to our well-being and
survival: specialized physicians, surgeons, and nurses on the island to care for the needs of our
community.
Growing up with aging grandparents, other family members, and now caring for my mother, I have
experienced the emotional roller coaster of wondering if our island has the specialized physicians that
my loved ones need when facing their health issues. We, of course, want the best care for them, so if
we seek it off-island, who will travel with them and stay with them for their recovery? Who will take
care of the family that we leave behind? How do we afford the financial burden of travel,
accommodations, etc.? How will traveling and being away from home affect their healing process? To
avoid this burden, we often kept our loved ones on the island but always wondered “what if and “did
we really do everything we could?” I would not wish it on anyone to go through this anguish for their
loved ones over something so essential as health care.
Since working with the Foundation, I have experienced the excitement and relief of hearing about a
new physician or a new specialty coming to Maui and the disappointment of learning that they moved
back because of lack of housing. It is so disheartening to know that the physicians and nurses who
leave their homes because of their desire to serve our community, embrace our culture, and put down
roots, are leaving because they cannot find a home here among the community that they serve.
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place on this island that can provide critical, lifesaving care
to our residents and visitors. Our emergency department is the second busiest in the state, seeing
more than 41,000 patients last year alone. For those with the most critical needs, our local families
and kupuna, there is often no other option. They do not have the time to delay treatment or look for
lifesaving care on another island. Our families cannot shoulder the burden of the added costs of
flying to the mainland, even outer island, for treatment. It takes a financial, physical, and emotional toll
on the families of their loved ones.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center has 75 vacant registered nurse positions, despite hiring 80
plus University of Hawaii Maui College nursing program graduates over the last three years. This
island, state, and national nursing shortage stresses our Maui nurses already stretched and
exhausted with the pandemic.
1
We need to be part of a solution. That is why I am asking you to support this resolution.
Because healing at home surrounded by our ‘ohana is the best medicine.
Mahalo,
Cassie Chavez
Development Manager-Annual Giving/Marketing
Maui Health Foundation
Maui Memorial Medical Center
221 Mahalani Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
808-242-2632 (office)
808-268-9927 (cell)
mauihealth.org/foundation
Guardian ^"^ngel
Recognize a staff member who made a positive impact on your care. Honor your Guardian Angel here:
https://www.mauihealth.orR/Ruardianangel/
From: Melinda A Sweany <Melinda.A.Sweany@kp.org>
Sent: Thursday, March 17, 2022 8:23 AM
To: County.clerk(5)mauicounty.us; Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us; Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us;
Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us; Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us; Kelly.King@mauicounty.us; Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us;
Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us; Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us; Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us; Melinda A Sweany
<Melinda.A.Sweany@kp.org>; Cassie Chavez <Cassie.Chavez@kp.org>; tamar@chotzen.com
Subject: Support for "CR 22-85, authorizing the disposition of real property to the Maui Health Foundation and for
waiver of outstanding real property taxes"
To: Honorable Alice Lee, Chair and Members of the Maui County Council
My name is Melinda Sweany and I am the Chief Development Officer of Maui Health Foundation.
Supporters of this resolution have shared stories of healthcare workers who would welcome the opportunity
to move to Maui and work at Maui Memorial but are unable to do so because of the prohibitive cost of
housing. But that's only part of the story. This housing crunch also impacts healthcare professionals who call
Maui home, some of whom have lived their whole lives here. For example, Maui Memorial recently lost a
valued employee who was born and raised here. Because of the high cost of housing, she could no longer
2
afford to live here and support her family. She and her husband and two kids moved to Nevada, 2,500 miles
away from family, friends and home.
So not only are we unable to bring people here to offset the shortage of healthcare workers, we are losing
vital, lifelong community members who have filled those roles.
As the only medical center on the island, how can Maui Memorial meet the demand for services if the nurses
and other healthcare professionals we need here can't live here?
Voting in support of Resolution 22-85 is how you can literally help address the healthcare needs of our
community, by creating a way for Maui Memorial to bring back professionals Hawaii born and raised, and also
recruit from the mainland, to Maui.
That is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution. Thank you.
Melinda Sweany
Chief Development Officer
oo 73o- rn
MAUI HEALTH o"irn (-T-1
i ' 5
oo- i'Hni aMAUI MEMORIAL ● KULA ● LANA'I
Our Community, Our Hospital, Our Foundation
po✓"v oo
221 Mahalani Street, Wailuku, HI 96793
Phone: (808) 442-5656, Mobile: (808) 419-4817
Fax: (808) 242-2633
www.mauihealth.org/foundation
www.mauihealth.org
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT; If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are prohibited from sharing, copying, or othen,vise using or disclosing
its contents. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and permanently delete this e-mail and any
attachments without reading, forwarding or saving them, v.173.295 Thank you.
3
Count^CleiJ<
Daniel Christener <dan@hawaiiactive.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 3:25 PM
County Clerk
Daniel Christener; Maui Vacation Rental Association
Testimony for Bill 62
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
You don't often get email from dan@hawaiiactive.com. Learn why this is important
<http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification> OQ
O ~n
C n
H
73
m50
oAloha Council Members, m-<
Oo -o-n zx
rnm -3 w
OPlease submit the following as our testimony for Bill 62. OJt: m ISO
My wife and I have been operating a short-term vacation rental for many years on Maui's North Shore. Most of our
guests are looking for privacy, a quiet neighborhood, and enough space for their extended families. These guests would
never stay in one of Maui's Westside's large hotels. With Covid, 'Privacy' is more important than ever!
Many relatively wealthy guests hire private chefs, masseuses, and guides rather than spend time in a hotel complex with
other tourists. It's a whole new trend of vacationing. Such guests are big spenders (30k-50k/week), which benefits our
local community rather than large corporations. We can only warn our council members, legislators, don't make a
mistake by not honoring these 'new, high-end guests!' Maui and Hawaii need quality tourism rather than mass
processing!
The short-term vacation rental home or condo model is THE BEST MODEL of SUSTAINABLE TOURISM!
Bill 62, a tax exemption for resident-owned short-term vacation rental properties, would greatly support the local
economy and be a step in the right direction for achieving greater sustainability in our visitor-based economy by
supporting locally-owned visitor lodging small businesses that generate income that stays in our community.
Sincerely,
Daniel & Manuela Christener
Spreckelsville, Maui
1
Count^^Cletj<
From:
Sent:
Karen Christenson <karen@mamasfishhouse.com>
Monday, March 14, 2022 10:40 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura;
Melinda.a.sweany@kp.org; Cassie.chavez@kp.org; tamar@chotzen.com
RESOLUTION 22-85
To:
Subject:
Hello, my name is Karen Christenson and I am a Maui resident.
My family moved to Lahaina in 1963 when I was a year old. I recall the days of going to the Plantation Clinic
on Front Street, so I have witnessed first-hand the improvement of our medical facilities on Maui.
Fast forward to 2022 and our health care community is facing a very serious problem and are unable to find a
place to live here. While I understand the problem is not only in our health care community, but our entire
community, I feel it is imperative to do something so that our community can be well taken care of. This
includes our visitors who are our biggest segment of emergency room patients at Maui Memorial Medical
Center. Access to health care is extremely important to a strong visitor economy.
That is why I am asking you to support the Maui Lani resolution.
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place on this island that can provide critical, lifesaving care to our
residents and our visitors, and we do so for any who come through our doors. For those with the most critical
needs, there is often no other option. They do not have the time to delay treatment or the strength to make
the trip to another island to receive care.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is short 160 physicians in specialties ranging from family and internal
medicine to oncology, heart and lung surgery, orthopedics and urology.
Imagine receiving a positive cancer result and being told you will have a consult with your doctor in 6
weeks! This is what happened to someone in my family recently.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is short 75 registered nurses, despite hiring every single graduate of the
UHMC, every year. Recently, FEMA nurses had to turn down assignments to Maui because they couldn't find
anywhere to live on Maui. Our Maui nurses are all angels for working endlessly through this pandemic. But
wouldn't it be nice for them to get a break, like nurses in other areas?
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui.
● Those who care for our community need to live in our community. Having a supply of homes will help ease the
need for market-priced housing for the medical providers Maui desperately needs.
● This will enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet the greatest healthcare needs in our
community, allow Maui-born medical professionals who wish to return home to practice medicine to do so, and
retain current Maui care providers looking to purchase their first home on Maui.
That is why 1 ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution. Thank you.
1
Karen Christenson
Mama's Fish House
799 Poho Place, Paia, Maui, HI 96779
Phone; (808) 579-8488
www.mamasfishhouse.com
<=3
Ot: y'uC 'r:
rviro
H;m -cr
o I
o 3a.■n
ni H mXiZ
aLU
2
Counti^^letJ<
From:
Sent:
James A Diegel <James.A.Diegel@kp.org>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 7:35 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paitin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
tamar@ch0t2en.com; Melinda A Sweany; Cassie Chavez
Maui Lani Fairways Resolution 22-85
To:
Cc:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don’t often get email fromjames.a.diegel@kp.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha kakou.
My name is Jim Diegel and I am the chief strategy officer at Maui Health, in this capacity, 1 oversee the physician
recruitment function, organizational strategic planning, new business development, community benefit/engagement,
and several operational departments. Further, I serve on the Maui County Council on Aging.
Maui Health recently recast its mission, vision, and values - values which include people, community, and excellence.
Outvalue of people includes a commitment to support the people we serve and each other. As new physicians and
caregivers (employees) contemplate joining our 'ohana, they are increasingly finding it hard to secure housing. There
have been three instances in recent months where physicians being recruited have commented on the cost and
difficulty of securing housing; in one case, a physician actually backed out of coming to Maui because of their inability to
secure housing. Similar examples have occurred with other caregiver (clinical and non-ciinical positions) recruitment -
not to mention the inability of existing employees to own a home. Maui Health's commitment to its physicians,
providers, and caregivers includes advocacy for housing, and we are working tirelessly to find solutions and partnerships
to create housing options for our people.
To that end, I urge Council to support the Resolution 22-85 conveying 16 shovel-ready lots at Maui Lani Fairways to Maui
Health Foundation for the express purposes of healthcare worker housing.
00
O ">1
C
Mahalo piha. 73:se m
O-HmJames A. Diegel
Strategy and Business Development
:T1><
Oo n 3:r~ rnm -1Maui Health
221 Mahalani St.
Wailuku, HI 96793
a-i-
7;ni CO
808-442-5103 (office)
808-281-7570 (cell)
mauihealth.org
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT: If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are prohibited from sharing, copying, or otherwise using or disclosing
its contents. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and permanently delete this e-mail and any
attachments without reading, forwarding or saving them, v.173.295 Thank you.
1
Count^£leH<
Wade G Ebersole <Wade.G.Ebersole@kp.org>
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 2:23 PM
Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King; Mike J. Molina;
Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M, Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; Melinda A Sweany; Cassie Chavez;
tamar@chotzen.com; County Clerk
Resolution 22-85
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from wade.g.ebersole@kp.org. Learn why this is important
Dear Honorable Members of City Council,
My name is Wade Ebersole, and I am the Chief Operating Officer at Maui Health. 1 feel so fortunate to live and work on
Maui. I am also grateful to work for Maui Health, which provides critical core services that allows Maui to be a thriving
place to live, work and visit. Like most industries, the healthcare industry is struggling deeply with how to plug the
pukas in our workforce. These gaps are a result of a number of complex factors that are largely attributed to the
pandemic. We have been laser focused on a commitment to our community during the past two years and now we face
another stark crisis, a housing shortage that is making retention and recruitment of Maui born medical professionals,
very difficult.
Housing is the number issue cited for candidates who decline an offer of employment.
As an anchor institution for Maui, we take great pride in our commitments to this community. Because of challenges
that extend beyond our sphere of influence of control we are ill positioned to meet the growing demands for life saving
treatments, from our aging community.
Working for Maui Health is a major commitment to the community, and everyone who works here wants to be apart
making this a better place to live. These employees who dedicate so much should be able to own a home on Maui. I
strongly support any resolution that makes this a reality. Including, having a supply of homes that are dedicated to
healthcare professionals.
Thank you for your consideration, and your dedication to making a Maui a wonderful place to live.
Warm Regards, OO
C-i
Wade is- rr
:0 O■^mWade Ebersole, FACHE
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
-< o '  I 4
o9^1r~ “O
rn -i mMaui Health
Maui Memorial Medical Center
221 Mahalani Street
Wailuku. HI 96793
73 r O7^ H i toCN
808-442-5178 (office)
808-264-3312 (cell)
mauihealth.ora
1
Jason A. Economou
Government Affairs Director
441 Ala Makani PI ● Kahului, HI 96732
phone 808-243-8585 ● fax 808-873-8585
Jason@RAMaui.com ● www.ramui.com
I
.0^
realtors®Association
OF MAUI, INC,
vttt
c 23
50"im
7)March 16, 2022 :s: m50
oCouncil Chair Alice Lee
Council of the County of Maui
Kalana 0 Maui Building
200 South High Street, 8* Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
mo
Oo -o
mm
O
SZ
Bill No. 62 (2022) - A Bill for an Ordinance Relating to a Short-Term Rental
Real Property Tax Exemption for County Residents
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers,
I am submitting the following testimony on behalf of the REALTORS Association of Maui and our
1,900+ members in support of Bill No. 62.
The REALTORS Association of Maui supports tax policy that prioritizes the economic wellbeing
of our residents, and makes it easier for individuals to maintain property ownership. Moreover, given recent
high rates of inflation and the implementation of the Maui County TAT, we see this as well timed tax relief
for many who need it. As many members of the council recently acknowledged in the Affordable Housing
Committee meeting on March 14th, there are many reasons for our residents to own more than one property.
It should not be assumed that these properties are “luxury” items or easily dispensable by their owners. This
legislation provides a valuable incentive to those who are a part of this community, and carry much of the
tax burden for our County.
Thank you for supporting property owners, and property ownership, through this legislation.
Mahalo,
Jason A. Economou
Government Affairs Director
REALTORS Association of Maui
R£rCount^CleH< \ / crn
From:
Sent:
Melinda A Sweany <Melinda.A.Sweany@kp.org>
Monday, March 14, 2022 8:23 AM
County Clerk
Maui Lani Lots to the Maui Health Foundation Resolutibh22^85 OF Tf-iP
'^'unty clerk
Ml MAR I i| jsjj9- ill
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from melinda.a.sweany@kp.org. Learn why this is important
Testimony for Resolution 22-85 for Friday's Meeting
From: Marc Emde. <emdems@yahoo.com>
Sent: Sunday, March 13, 2022 2:43 PM
To: Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us; Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us; Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us;
Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us; Kelly.King@mauicounty.us; Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us;
Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us; Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us; Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us; Melinda A Sweany
<Me!inda.A.Sweany@kp.org>; Cassie Chavez <Cassie.Chavez@kp.org>; tamar@chotzen.com
Subject: Maui Lani Lots to the Maui Health Foundation
Caution: This email came from outside Kaiser Permanente. Do not open attachments or click on
links if you do not recognize the sender.
Dear Council Members
I have been an emergency room physician on Maui the last 20 years. Despite having lived on Maui my entire life, finding
an affordable home even 20 years ago was formidable. Now with so many local doctors carrying substantial loan burdens
after finishing medical school and residency, adding a million dollar home to the equation will prevent the best and
brightest from practicing here. Even for some of my colleagues here many years, they are still forced to rent. With
reimbursement comparatively low in Hawaii and cost of living substantially higher than the rest of the country, more
physicians and nurses will leave. What this program will do is benefit those recent medical grads who have large loan
burdens. Those are the people we need to attract. Doctors and nurses that can put down roots, raise a family and
become a stable work-force. Healthcare on Maui will not survive with locums, part-time and semi-retired care givers. If
you care about healthcare on Maui, support this proposal.
Sincerely,
Marc S. Emde MD
Kula.
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT: If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are prohibited from sharing, copying, or otherwise using or disclosing
its contents. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and permanently delete this e-mail and any
attachments without reading, forwarding or saving them, v.173.295 Thank you.
1
County Clerk E£
From:
Sent:
tobI@hawaiilife.com
Thursday, March 17, 2022 11:43 AM
County Clerk
STRH a cap and exemption
MI HAR 17 PH 12: 3i|
To:
yFFiCE OF THE
‘OUNTY CLERKr'Subject:
IYou don't often get email from tobi@hawaiilife.com. Learn whv this is important
Aloha Council Members,
Please submit this as my testimony for the subject proposed Bill 62.
I have testified many times to ask for support of short-term vacation rental properties, specifically those owned
by Hawaii residents and Maui County residents. To restate my argument, I believe that local ownership of short
term vacation rental properties is the best form of sustainable visitor lodging, which contributes to Sustainable
Tourism; 1. These properties are locally owned small businesses and directly benefit the local owner 2. Locally
owned vacation rentals keep all the income generated in the community, because we live here everything we
make is also spent and stays in this community. 3. Low draw on resources; less electricity, less water, lower
volume of visitors necessary to keep us in a viable business (compared to Big Box Hotels/resort areas)
The model of the short-term vacation rental home or condo is THE BEST MODEL of SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM (visitor lodging) and State and County’s push to lower visitor volume and negative environmental
impacts, this small-scale, locally owned lodging model fits perfectly with that idea.
Bill 62, a tax exemption for resident owned short-term vacation rental properties would greatly support the
local economy, and be a step in the right direction for achieving greater sustainability in our visitor based
economy, by supporting locally owned visitor lodging small businesses who generate income that stays in our
community.
Mahalo,
Tobi B. Fisher R(S)
Hawaii Life Real Estate Brokers
License #62330
808.960.4993
Tobi@hawaiilife.com
1
Counti^Clerk
im Ki\R 17 AH 7= 58
From:
Sent:
Dawnalyn Fujiwara <dawnalyn02@gmai!.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 6:36 AM
County Clerk
Testify for 'Olelo Hawai'i & 'Oiwi Cultural Resources
To:
Subject: office of the
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from dawnalyn02@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.l
Aloha.
My name is Dawnalyn testifying on agenda item CR 22-26. 1want to testify in strong support of sending Proposal 8, to
create a Department of 'Oiwi Resources, to the ballot.
Mahalo.
Dawnalyn Fujiwara
Dawnalyn02@gmail.com
808-344-5224
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Julie A Hew <Juiie.A.Hew@kp.org>
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 3;20 PM
To: County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; Melinda A Sweany;
Cassie Chavez; tamar@chotzen.com
Resolution 22-85
csOoO-n
C“n
Subject:
Ilf
Importance: High o■H m cs ■  I
COi:
r~ ‘
Some people who received this message don't often get email from julie.a.hew@kp.org. Learn why this iErimportant
xij: ”
=ac
^ ni **“●
-o
I maDear Maui County Council, JS:
My name is Julie Hew, and I ask you to support the Maui Lani Resolution 22-85.
I serve as the physician liaison and manage physician recruitment for Maui Health.
Compared to other areas of Hawaii, Maui's underserved service area population experiences greater challenges to
healthcare access and services. The existing shortage of physicians across an array of specialties such as Family Practice,
Gastroenterology, Urology, and General Surgery is  akey factor causing limited access. Physician recruitment is no small
feat and will only become more challenging as the nationwide provider shortage grows.
Availability of housing is the most common barrier Maui Health faces in recruitment efforts. Maui's steep real estate
prices, lack of housing inventory, and limited rental options repeatedly diminish our ability to recruit new physicians.
Physician candidates consistently choose positions with lower cost of living in mainland markets which negatively affects
Maui Health's ability to provide high-quality, accessible healthcare.
Those who care for our community need to live in our community. How can we ensure our housing market doesn't
continue to outprice new physicians? Having a supply of homes will help ease the need for market-priced housing for
our medical providers Maui desperately needs.
Help us help our physicians find a place to call home. Support the Maui Lani resolution.
Mahalo,
Julie
Julie A Hew
Physician Practice Program Manager
Strategic Business Development
Maui Health
Maui Memorial Medical Center
221 Mahalani Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
808-269-5857 (mobile)
mauihealth.org/providerportal
1
REL- cU
Maui County Council Meeting
3/18/22 im HAR 18 AH 7: i|6
Testimony for CR 22-26 OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKAloha Chair Lee and Council Members
My name is Keomailani Hanapi Hirata, I am from the island of Molokai, and I am humbly
submitting my testimony on proposals one and eight.
Proposal 1:
“Change Council elections from at-large elections to electing three Council Members from each
of three Council electoral regions; require that one Councilmember reside in each of the
following areas; Moloka'i, Lana'i, East Maui, North Maui, South Maui, West Maui, Kahului,
Wailuku, and Upcountry; create a Reapportionment Commission.”
Position:
I am in STRONG SUPPORT of the Committee’s recommendation to ELIMINATE Proposal 1
from consideration for placement on the ballot.
Reason for position:
I support and agree with the GREAT committee’s report which states that "The current system
of at-large voting and at-large representation ensures all Maui County voters can cast votes for
all nine Council seats and all Maui County residents are represented by all nine members of the
Council, promoting unity instead of geographic rivalries, on the Council and in the community.”
Proposal 8:
“Create the Department of ‘Oiwi Resources, effective July 1, 2024, and affirm that the County
will operate as a bilingual government by implementing opportunities to include the Hawaiian
language.
Position:
I am in STRONG SUPPORT of the Committee’s recommendation to SEND Proposal 8 to the
ballot.
Reason for Position:
I support this proposal because it will “ensure proper management of Oiwi (Native) cultural
resources throughout the county and to design and implement programs to care for and/or
develop Oiwi resources, including the Hawaiian language, cultural practices, place names,
historical and archival materials, cultural sites, iwi and burials, and the variety of natural
resources used in cultural practices." (From the Maui News)
Mahalo,
Keomailani Hanapi Hirata
P.O. Box 1852 Kaunakakai, HI. 96748
Kahenawai3@yahoo.com
Count^Cletjc
From:
Sent:
Pete Jalbert <pete@mauirealestate.com>
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 4:21 PM
County Clerk
Resolutions 22-84 and 22-85
20?? HAR 16 Pf? 23
To:
Subject: Of-KICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from pete@mauirealestate.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council,
I am writing in support of the two resolutions that would grant lots for affordable housing in the Fairways at Maui Lani.
The need for any and all affordable housing on island is extraordinary. Anything we can do to help create affordable
housing for health care professionals and island residents in general should be a priority.
Best Regards,
Joseph "Pete" Jalbert
Makawao
1
Count^£leH< 8.a n T.n
From:
Sent:
gregory kahn <geekahn@gmail.com>
Friday, March 18, 2022 8:45 AM
County Clerk
Testimony Opposing Charter Commission Proposal 1
im HAR 18 AH 8:
To:
Subject: CFFICE OF THE
'^OUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from geekahn@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
My name is Greg Kahn, a resident of Molokai, and  Iam submitting testimony opposing approval of Charter Amendment
1, the replacement of at-large voting with three voting districts.
Firstly, I would like to address one of the key arguments of the proponents of the proposal, which contends that the
candidates will save expenses if their voting district is smaller. Having participated closely with the management of Maui
County Council candidates' campaigns, I can assure you that the financial savings would be negligible. The bulk of a
campaign is anchored by campaign forums, media interviews, letters to the editor, print media guest columns, town hall
meetings, sign wavings, community meetings, social media posts, etc. None of the aforementioned campaign strategies
incur any financial outlay whatsoever. The big ticket items of radio and newspaper ads are fixed expenses, being the
same if running in a district or at-large. Precinct slate mailers, such as the Maui Ghana Candidates one which features
candidates in every district, is also a fixed price expense, costing the same whether in a single district or an at-iarge
election. All in all, the savings to candidates as a result of Charter Amendment 1 are inconsequential.
What is consequential is that Charter Amendment 1 erodes the democratic process by disenfranchising the voter's
voice. The nine-member Maui County Council approves policies and legislation which-more often than not-- affect the
entire population of the County. Currently, County citizens are able to participate in selecting those nine members,
allowing the citizenry to have their voices represented. Candidates must receive a majority of the County citizens' votes
in order to be elected to serve the County. But under the proposed Charter Amendment, wherein each of the three
districts represents approximately 33% of the total votes in the County, candidates will only have to capture
approximately 17% of the countywide vote in order to win a seat on the Council.
As we live in a time where voter suppression is a serious concern, maintaining the at-large model will enhance the
power of the voter, while the three-district model will dilute the power of the voter. The message we want to send is
"Your vote counts," but with Charter Commission Proposal 1, the message becomes "Your vote counts, but not as much
as it used to."
I strongly urge you to reject Charter Commission Proposal 1.
Thank you,
Greg Kahn
1
Countj^leH< p u: r c i w c n
From:
Sent:
Jess Kehau Lucas <jessklucas@gmail.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 8:46 AM
County Clerk
Testimony CR 22-26
Z0?2 HAR 17 AH 9: 18
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email fromjessklucas@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha.
'0 au 'o Kehau Lucas, noho i Wailuku ma Maui. My name is Kehau Lucas and I am a resident of Wailuku, Maui.
Let this serve as testimony on agenda item CR 22-26. 1want to testify in strong support of sending Proposal 8, to create
a Department of 'Oiwi Resources, to the ballot.
First, 'olelo Hawai'i (Hawaiian language) is the official language of the state of Hawai'i alongside english; however, this distinction is
rarely upheld throughout the pae 'aina, but rather a "for show" type of distinction. With the creation of a Department of 'Oiwi
Resources, this department would support the perpetuation and presence of 'olelo Hawai'i throughout the linguistic landscape of
Maui, and Hawai'i.
Second, within the state of Hawai'i whenever 'oiwi-related resources are needed, oftentimes this type of work is contracted out to
individuals. By creation the Department of 'Oiwi Resources, the state of Hawai'i will be able to employ individuals who will serve as
internal consultants permanently to address all of these types of issues rather than outsourcing.
Third, the creation of the Department of 'Oiwi Resources would serve as a catalyst for change in the state of Hawai'i from a Western
institution and state to one that serves the indigenous population. How many states can say that? Not many. By doing so, Maui
would be the leader that prioritizes the original inhabitants of this 'aina and reap all the benefits of an indigenous approach.
I write in full support of agenda item CR22-26 and urge you to do the same.
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Lizbeth Luck <lluck@makenagbc.com>
Monday, March 14, 2022 7:51 PM
County Clerk; Alice L. Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura;
Melinda.a.sweany@kp.org; Cassie.chavez@kp.org; tamar@chotzen.com
RESOLUTION 22-85
To:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from lluck@makenagbc.com. Learn why this is important
Hello, my name is Lizbeth Luck and lam the Food & Beverage Director at Makena Golf & Beach Club,
A place to live is one of the most basic and important human needs there is. How can we ensure the quality of
life for all who call Maui home if the medical professionals we need here can't afford to live here?
That is why I am asking you to support the Maui Lani resolution.
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place on this island that can provide critical, lifesaving care to our
residents and our visitors, and we do so for any who come through our doors. For those with the most critical needs,
there is often no other option. They do not have the time to delay treatment or the strength to make the trip to another
island to receive care.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is currently short 160 physicians in specialties ranging from family and
internal medicine to oncology, heart and lung surgery, orthopedics and urology.
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui. I myself became pregnant last July and was told during a
global pandemic I would need to fly to Oahu to see a high risk specialist for my Advanced Maternal Age ultrasounds. 1
declined this due to the idea of going anywhere near an airport during that time which caused a lot of anxiety and stress.
The specialist flew over once during my pregnancy and I was able to schedule an appointment but this causes massive
stress on mother's who are already considered high risk and worried for their unborn. Being able to visit our only major
hospital on island for something along these lines would be very beneficial.
We have the facilities and the financial, community and professional support to meet the most critical
healthcare needs, but without housing options, physicians and nurses either won't come or aren't able to stay. I myself
cannot currently find a home on island to purchase with a substantial salary and perfect credit, as you know this is one
of the most difficult housing markets to jump into.
Those who care for our community need to live in our community. Having a supply of homes will help ease the need
for market-priced housing for the medical providers Maui desperately needs.
This will enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet the greatest healthcare needs in our community, allow
Maui-born medical professionals who wish to return home to practice medicine to do so, and retain current Maui care
providers looking to purchase their first home on Maui.
That is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution.
Thank you.
LIZBETH LUCK | FOOD & BEVERAGE DIRECTOR
1
Makena Golf & Beach Club
5415 Makena Alanui Drive, Wailea- Makena, HI 96753
C: (407) 325-2263
www.makenaaolfandbeachclub.com f^t'CciVEo
®  IS W 7: 59
2
Testimonial Regarding the Allotment of Housing fo^
Medical Workers. OC“^ 3»-
73
mZX3
H m U-.-K.oSubmitted by Dr. & Mrs. Paul & Jael Mazur
heesooki @hotmail.com
o - 32r- I I !m --I
zix afND:?;rn CO
The absolute main problem with recruiting and retaining doctors and
nurses here on Maui is the astronomical cost and shortage of housing. My
husband was recently recruited to become the only full time heart surgeon on the
island. He was working on a temporary contract basis for most of 2021. During
that time countless lives were saved due to the fact patients were not required to
be flown to Oahu for life saving heart surgery. He was offered and accepted a
permanent position to be the only heart surgeon on the entire island of Maui.
We have spent the last year attempting to purchase a home here to
relocate only to be outbid by cash buyers from the mainland. Most of whom
primarily use the home as a third or fourth vacation house. It happened so many
times that I honestly have lost count. One seller told us not even to submit an
offer unless it was all cash. After months of being out bid or turned away we
decided to accept a job on the mainland. The people of Maui are now left again
with no full time heart surgeon. This affects me more than just a job opportunity
because my immediate family lives in Napili. When my sister had an emergency
C section she was airlifted to Honolulu. Last year she had to fly herself over to
Oahu for a double mastectomy. Due to covid restrictions she had to do it all
alone. This type of medical care for the residents of this island, my family
included is unacceptable and unsafe.
Not only do the residents of Maui get short changed on health care but
there is other collateral damage. I personally have had a family friend suffer a
heart attack while vacationing here. He had a massive heart attack on the beach
and died here. About 8 years ago my family was on  aflight here from California
when a passenger had a massive heart en route on the plane. Thankfully he
recovered and was able to be stabilized before he flew back to the mainland to
have surgery.
More often than not, the physicians that are recruited to come here will
bring their spouses and children. Many physicians are married to physicians,
nurses or other professionals that are also needed on island. I am by trade an
attorney but was looking to get my teaching credentials when we relocated here.
I was interested in teaching elementary school at one of the many public schools
on island in need of teachers. (Which is all of them.) My sisters’ children are at
Kam ill in Lahaina. They constantly lose teachers mid year due to financial
reasons.
Affordable attainable housing here on island will most definitely attract and
retain much needed medical professionals and their families who more often than
not bring value to the island. I fully understand that land conservation is a
fundamental priority on Maui. But I also believe preserving and serving the
health of the residents of Maui is just as important. Maui is not just the land, it’s
the people. Investing in the health and well being of the population of the island
by ensuring attainable healthcare has to be a top priority. The recruitment and
attainment of doctors and nurses via affordable housing is an investment in every
single man, woman and child on Maui.
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Josh McKim <drjmckim@gmaii.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 10:18 AM
County Clerk
Support for proposed Bill 62
To:
Subject:
You don't often get email from drjmckim@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
1 reside in Maui full time with my 4 children. I wanted to voice my support for Bill 62 which would create a STR property
tax exemption for County residents.
O -nMahalo
73
Josh McKim om<
OO: la¬ri
frim -I 3Josh McKim DC Dr.i NO
CO
PERSONAL HEALTH INFORMATION DISCLAIMER
If this email contains Personal Health Information, it is HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL. It is intended forthe exclusive use of the
addressee. It is to be used only as an aid to provide specific healthcare
services to this patient. Any other use is a violation of Federal Law (HIPAA) and will be reported as such. If you received
this email in error, please notify the sender and delete this email. Thank you.
1
Count^Cler^
From:
Sent: im HAR 18 Afl 7: 46Hannah McKuin <bannanies@gmail.com>
Friday, March 18, 2022 5:59 AM
County Clerk
Bill 62
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from bannanies@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
Please submit this as my testimony for the subject proposed Bill 62.
I believe that local ownership of short term vacation rental properties is the best form of sustainable visitor
lodging, which contributes to Sustainable Tourism; 1. These properties are locally owned small businesses and
directly benefit the local owner 2. Locally owned vacation rentals keep all the income generated in the
community, because we live here everything we make is also spent and stays in this community. 3. Low draw
on resources; less electricity, less water, lower volume of visitors necessary to keep us in a viable business
(compared to Big Box Hotels/resort areas)
The model of the short-term vacation rental home or condo is THE BEST MODEL of SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM (visitor lodging) and State and County's push to lower visitor volume and negative environmental
impacts, this small-scale, locally owned lodging model fits perfectly with that idea.
Bill 62, a tax exemption for resident owned short-term vacation rental properties would greatly support the
local economy, and be a step in the right direction for achieving greater sustainability in our visitor based
economy, by supporting locally owned visitor lodging small businesses who generate income that stays in our
community.
Mahalo,
Hannah Mckuin
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Cleri< ● - /Jin
From:
Sent:
Greg Mebel <gregmebel@gmail.com>
Friday, March 18, 2022 8:02 AM
County Clerk
SUPPORT Bill 62 (with modification)
mi HAR le AH 8- 32
To:
Subject: ;ri-lCE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
r'.
r
'■ You don't often get email from gregmebel@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Maui County Council
March i8, 2022
Bill 62
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
I’m writing to SUPPORT Bill 62 with modifications.
Section D: “The home exemption is not allowed on more than one home for any taxpayer.”
I’m not a bill writer, nor an attorney, but perhaps some clarification is required here? Does this mean
that any one taxpayer may only qualify for one STR home exemption? Or, does it mean that any
taxpayer may not qualify for an exemption both on his/her home AND an STR home at the same
time?
If the latter is the case, the bill may be a no-starter and won’t have much effect. If it’s the former, that
seems logical/fair and perhaps the language should be clarified.
Otherwise - I support this bill. It allows for DISTRIBUTED, DIVERSIFIED, SMALL BUSINESS,
WHERE FUNDS RESIDE IN OUR LOCAL ECONOMY. These are very important goals for our
economic SUSTAINABILITY.
Thank you for your consideration and your service,
Greg Mebel
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Colleen Medeiros <colleenpmedeiros@gmaii.com>
Thursday, March 17, 2022 6:34 AM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill 62_A Bill for an Ordinance Related to Short Term rental real property
tax exemption for county residents
To:
Subject:
IYou don’t often get email from colleenpmedeiros@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
Please submit this as my testimony for the subject proposed Bill 62.
I have testified many times to ask for support of short-term vacation rental properties, specifically those owned
by Hawaii residents and Maui County residents. To restate my argument, I believe that local ownership of short
term vacation rental properties is the best form of sustainable visitor lodging, which contributes to Sustainable
Tourism; 1. These properties are locally owned small businesses and directly benefit the local owner 2. Locally
owned vacation rentals keep all the income generated in the community, because we live here everything we
make is also spent and stays in this community. 3. Low draw on resources; less electricity, less water, lower
volume of visitors necessary to keep us in a viable business (compared to Big Box Hotels/resort areas)
The model of the short-term vacation rental home or condo is THE BEST MODEL of SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM (visitor lodging) and State and County's push to lower visitor volume and negative emdronmental
impacts, this small-scale, locally owned lodging model fits perfectly with that idea.
Bill 62, a tax exemption for resident owned short-term vacation rental properties would greatly support the
local economy, and be a step in tlie right direction for achieving greater sustainability in our visitor based
economy, by supporting locally owned visitor lodging small businesses who generate income that stays in our
community.
Mahalo,
00
a)0-5Colleen P. Medeiros =K
C rn=0
"i m<
O' r1
Co 7>-_T\
rnm
●^3 -L. O
CO
1
received
2522 HAR 17 /ih 7= 58
3/16/2022
To the Maui County Councilmembers.
theMy name is Kaleialoha Moss, also known as Pumpkin, and I am writing to you inVegaitis^ta^enda'jtem
CR 22-25.16 Resolution 22-42. I currently am serving on the Molokai Planning Commission until my
term expires at the end of this month. I had stepped into the position because of a vacancy due to the
passing of a previous commissioner, so I had only been in the position since August 2021. During the
time I had served, though brief, I learned a lot, enjoyed serving and felt I was looking out for the
interests of my community members. Unfortunately, in the GREAT committee meeting that was held
earlier this month I was voted to not be reappointed.
! was not able to speak at the GREAT committee because not enough members requested my presence,
but I did watch it. Council Paltin did not want to reappoint me because she felt that due to how I voted
or what I said during Molokai Planning Commission meetings meant I did not believe In the planning
commission's sole authority in the SMA and the major issues of the future and therefore she could not
support me. I believe because of her statements she was able to sway the majority to vote to not
reappoint. I am born and raised on Molokai and I DO believe that, yes the sea levels are higher than
they were when I was young, it is obvious on our coastlines that there has been more erosion, that king
tides are higher than I ever remember, BUT I cannot say that, without a doubt, that the sea level rise
maps are correct. The sea level rise maps are theories, they are predictions of what may occur in 2050
and 2100, but you cannot tell me that they are guaranteed to be accurate, but yet you want me to make
decisions that are based on theory and predictions? 1 try my best to make my decisions on the FACTS
that are presented to me and I try to put my community members first.
It was said in the GREAT meeting that building in the SMA is not a good idea, BUT I disagree with this
generalized statement. Do I believe that we should build homes on the shoreline, no 1 don't, we can see
evidence that buildings are falling due to shore erosion, but during the 7 months that I served i did not
see one single case come before the commission where the applicant wanted to build or even renovate
on a shoreline property, where the applicant was not a county entity, i did see landowners that wanted
to build new homes in a SMA, BUT their land was across the street from the ocean. 1 believe that we
should look at each case presented to us and the facts that come with that case and make decisions
based on those facts.
Do you know that a whole lot (I don't know the exact number) of Molokai is in an SMA. So you want all
these people to not be able to do any type of developments on their land? Land that they either spent
their hard earned income to buy or land that has been passed to them and could have been in their
family for generations, you are telling them it's not usable, they cannot build their home because the
ocean MIGHT encroach on their land in 78 years? 1 am sorry but that is not something that I can do,
what about the freedoms and rights of landowners?  1got on the commission to try to make a
difference, how naive I was to think that I could make some kind of difference, but because I have a
different view point on "science" I was not allowed to continue. ! have heard from my community
members that they were glad I was on the commission that they felt that I could help make a difference.
I heard it said In the GREAT meeting that there needs to be balance, and honestly, there is not a balance.
Unfortunately I did not agree with some of the other more vocal commissioners and in the beginning
that was actually a hard thing for me to deal with. I really do fee! that 1 have been doing the right thing, 1
am trying to stand up for the everyday person that is trying to build their home or make improvements.
1 appreciated the other commissioners, even the ones I didn't agree with, because they would show me
things/issues I never thought of. Right now the commission has a majority of commissioners that want
to say "no" or make the process longer and harder for applicants. We are not talking about large hotel
or commercial developments, we are talking about regular people trying to build their home. 1
understand trying to do things in the "system", my husband and I are in the process of rezonIng
ourselves and its been a long process of about 4 years and its still not done. Why does it take so long?
Why does It cost so much money? Do we just want to make everything so difficult and make people
jump thru hoops? Why? 1 want to make it quicker and easier, but still make sure the right practices are
used.
I applied to be on the commission to try and help my community and I still believe that is what a
commissioner should do, but this whole process has really discouraged me and I am not asking for you
to change your minds and vote against my disapproval, I only wanted a chance to defend myself and the
decisions I made while serving my community. Thank you for your time and the opportunity, even
though It was short, to serve.
Kaleialoha "Pumpkin" Moss
TO: All nine County Council Members
FROM: Heather Mueller, President, Kula Community Association Board
RE: Council Action on Charter Proposal #6 - Maui Planning Commission
March 10, 2022
Aloha Council Members,
The Kula Community Association Board met and discussed the effort by some members of
the County Council to limit the Upcountry Maui District in its participation on the Maui Planning
Commission to only one member, while at the same time reserving the right for the other five
districts to have two members on the Maui Planning Commission.
We feel that the rationale for this action is misplaced. One of the activities that the planning
commissions undertake is the regulation of the SMA rules and it was felt that because there is
no shoreline Upcountry, there is no need for two people from the district to serve on the
Commission. However, SMA rules are only a relatively small part of the Commission’s
responsibilities.
Such thinking is rather narrow-minded because it does not recognize the fact that although
the Upcountry area does not have a coastline, many of the ahupua’a run mauka to makai
from the Haleakala summit through the Upcountry District to the coast and shoreline. It should
also be remembered that many of the problems of drainage and flooding in the coastal
communities are the result of rainfall events, actions or non-actions in the Upcountry District.
Excluding members of the Upcountry Community Plan District would set a dangerous
precedent that leaving out any area of Maui from important decisions is not proper. The
Council has concurrently indicated that they believe in Charter Proposal #1 that all the council
members should be elected by all the residents of Maui. How do you think Upcountry
residents will feel if they are now told by some of the council members that their participation
is not wanted in important decisions concerning the future of the island and county? Just one
example would be future changes in the Maui Island Plan or County-Wide Policy Plan which
go through the Planning Commission. Do you want to send Upcountry residents a message
that their participation is not as valuable as that of the other districts, even though Upcountry’s
population (27,503) is greater than that of East Maui (2,719) and West Maui (23,167)
combined?
Please do not put any restriction on the membership of the Maui Planning Commission
beyond the statement that: “No more than two members shall come from any
one community plan district.”
The Kula Community Association thanks you for all the work that you do and hopes that you
will not limit our participation in planning the future of Maui.
Date: March 10, 2022Heather Mueller, President of the Kula Community Association
CC: Pukalani Community Association
Makawao Community Association
Maui County Charter Commission
CountyClerk r!\/FDPi:::r
From:
Sent:
Saedene Yee-Ota <sae@saedesigngroup.com>
Monday, March 14, 2022 11:59 AM
County Clerk
RESOLUTION 22-85
im m 1^1 PHI? 13
To:
1--F1CE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from sae@saedesigngroup.com. Learn why this is important
SUPPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-85
Please support this unique partnership between Maui County's ownership of 16 Maui Lani lots and the Maui Health
Foundation. The need for housing is urgent across the board, but especially for our health care providers. These homes
will guarantee a home for physicians and health care specialists that our island urgently needs. As a Hospital Foundation
board member, I have come across many challenges in our community and never thought that "housing" would be one
of them. Housing for healthcare will help our entire community.
Sincerely yours,
Saedene Ota
Saedene Ota 1 Maui Partner
T 808.249.2200 w saedesianQrQUD.com
MAUI 2261 Aupuni St #101, Wailuku, HI 96793
OAHU 555 South St #108, Honolulu, HI 96813
0
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Nancy Overton <nancyo@leisinc.com>
Monday, March 14, 2022 9:33 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura
Cassie.chavez@kp.org; tamar@chotzen.com; Melinda.a.sweany@kp.org
RESOLUTION 22-85
To:
Cc:
Subject:
My name is Nancy Leis Overton and I am Vice President of the Dorvin D. Leis Co., Inc. 1 also sit
on the board of the Maui Health Foundation.
We have the facilities and the financial, community and professional support to meet the most
critical healthcare needs, but without housing options, physicians and nurses either won’t come or
aren’t able to stay.
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is currently short 160 physicians in specialties ranging from
family and internal medicine to oncology, heart and lung surgery, orthopedics, and urology. My son
was born and raised here in Maui, he graduated from medical school in 2016 from John A. Burns
School of Medicine.
He went on to do his residency at NYU Langone Health for anesthesiology. He would love to return to
the islands, but housing is one of the issues that will keep him from coming back.
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui.
By allowing this resolution to happen it will enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet
the greatest healthcare needs in our community, allow Maui-born medical professionals who wish to
return home to practice medicine to do so, and retain current Maui care providers looking to
purchase their first home on Maui.
That is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution.
Thank you. CT
733
J^ancy Leis Overton mo-r\ S. ✓
n Ti-<
oo
mm "H V? a4=:t; m
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Carlton & Irene Pabalan <pabalans@gmail.com>
Friday, March 18, 2022 8:50 AM
County Clerk
Charter Commission Recommending NO on the Proposal #1 to Establish District Voting
and Reapportionment
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from pabalans@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha!
My name is Carlton Pabalan,
I am providing testimony for consideration for the committee to the Charter Commission recommending  aNO vote--on
Proposal #1 to establish district voting and reapportionment.
I believe as proposed our small community's voice will be lost within the scope of larger district agendas and priorities.
I'm concerned that our community's priorities could be overrun by agendas of many; thereby, reducing our specific
needs and priorities. The reapportionment would convolute not only Moloka'i but each affect community affected by
the proposal causing more red-tape, create unnecessary hierarchy, processes, and further reprioritization of needs
reducing overall effectiveness on reaching described goals.
As is each entity has equal vote and input for resources and equal consideration no matter the size or number within a
given body. I believe our Moloka'i community would be fragmented in the longterm should district voting and
reapportionment occur. The result will only cause further completion for priorities at a lower level of purview reducing
our impact to be heard and considered by final decision makers or pertinent proposals affecting Moloka'i in general.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide input for serious consideration to Vote NO-on Proposal #1 to establish district
voting and reapportionment!
God Bless
Carlton Pabalan
"Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do than by the ones you did do." H.
Jackson Brown Jr.
=3-
Q X X
OJ
li.
ooCO >-LUh-
SixLLi cc
rs'"y'
T O
Oo
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Alison Patel <alison.m.patel@gmail.com>
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 4:55 PM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura;
Melinda.a.sweany@kp.org; Cassie.chavez@kp.org; tamar@chotzen.com
Maui Lani health care housing
To:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from aiison.m.patel@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
My name is Alison Patel and I am a radiology technologist and my husband, Shalin Patel, is
one of the two interventional cardiologists who work at Maui Memorial Medical Center.
Our story began in 2016 when Shalin worked as a general cardiologist at the hospital for a year
prior to his interventional cardiology training. He and I met during his training, and I decided to
take a leap of faith with him moving to Maui. He had fallen in love with Maui and felt that he
could make a difference in a small community with the skills he had learned. Ultimately, he
returned to Maui in 2019 as a full time employed interventional cardiologist with Pacific
Permanente Group, and we got married in December 2020 with plans of making Maui a home.
Unfortunately, due to the COVID pandemic our plans derailed. Starting as a new physician out of
training, housing prices seemed already high compared to our prior location, and without a
significant nest egg due to paying off student loans it was scary purchasing a home immediately.
We decided to rent initially until we could save for a down payment. Then suddenly COVID came
along and housing on Maui became unattainable. Prices skyrocketed and rentals became scarce.
We were now competing with people bidding several hundred thousand dollars above asking and
some sellers only wanted cash offers. We could not complete and still can't. Luckily, we signed a
long-term lease of 1.5 years however this will end in August. We don't anticipate finding an
adequate rental and are not sure what the housing market will do as houses are overpriced.
Maui needs market priced housing for health care providers. If I struggle to be able to buy a house
I can't imagine what our nurses, technologists, medical assistants, etc,.are feeling. Those who care
for our community need to live in our community. Having a supply of homes will help ease the
need for market-priced housing for medical staff. Hopefully this can help attract medical
professionals and retain them.
I ask that you please approve the Maui Lani housing initiative. The community has the right to
receive exceptional health care and if something isn't done the hospital will continue to lose staff
as well as struggle with recruitment. In the end the community is who is ultimately affected, and
they deserve better. Therefore, we ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution. So that we can
continue to provide and care for the entire Maui community. While this may not be the ultimate
solution at least it is a start. To solve this crisis, we need to think outside the box. Perhaps a state
income tax credit for physicians purchasing a home would be a supplemental idea to this.
Mahalo for your time,
Alison and Shalin Patel
ooOmcm
m
7D
m
f o-<
oo"Tl zs
m ●●O
CO
2
MAUI HEALTH SYSTEM
Community hospitals affiliated with KAISER PERMANENTE.
RECEIVED
mi HAR 16 PH 2* 36
’j'r\ ICE Or THE
March 15, 2022 COUNTY CLERK
TO: Maui County Council
200 S. High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
FROM: Michael Rembis
Chief Executive Officer, Maui Health
221 Mahalani Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
As a not-for-profit organization, Maui Health has  amission is to provide high-quality care to all
residents and visitors, regardless of their health insurance coverage or ability to pay. Through
all the challenges of the last two years, our nurses and care providers were stretched thin,
working long shifts and hours to meet changing needs, and I am proud of how our staff rose to
meet obstacles with compassion, flexibility and professionalism.
Unfortunately, we remain stretched thin. Not because of a surge in illness, but a surge in
housing costs. We are unable to recruit and retain the healthcare providers we need due to a
dire lack in housing that is accessibly priced for them to be able to move and live here.
Those who care for our community need to live in our community. There is nothing more
important in this community than having people on Maui provide care but lack of housing has
had a serious impact our ability to hire essential staff. This shortage directly impacts Maui
residents’ access to critical, life-changing or life-saving care when they need it. For the first
time, our biggest obstacle we have in finding staff to care for patients on Maui is housing. We
have had current staff leave the island because homes they are renting are being sold. Staff
relocating from the mainland are paid extremely well for temporary housing, but they are unable
to find short-term housing. We have also for the first time had physicians who provide critical
life-saving services turn us down because they are unable to find adequate housing.
That is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution. Having this market-priced housing set
aside for healthcare professionals will allow us to attract and retain those most needed to meet
the healthcare needs in our community. The beauty of Maui and its people is a huge draw when
we recruit, but without housing options, the nurses, other care providers and even physicians
we need literally can’t afford to come Maui. And our community cannot afford to go without
them.
I ask you to please approve resolution 22-85. Thank you.
Maui Health System ] 221 Mahalani St. | Wailuku, HI 96793 I Phone; (808) 244-9056 | Fax; (808) 242-2443
MHSinfo@kp.org | mauihealthsystem.org
Robert T. Takamatsu
1021 Noio Street, Honolulu, HI 96816 | Office: (808) 270-5974 [ Cell; (808) 594-3696 1 bobt@gg<^dfellow^s.
6-r: ""
C2]
2;oH
com
m
om ■’n
ooMarch 14, 2022 3a»-●n
rnm *-i
;u X D\jjni
RE: Resolution 22-85, Maui Lani Housing Initiative, Testimony on Behalf of Maui Health Foundation
Dear Members of Maui County Council:
Hello, my name is Bob Takamatsu and 1 am a member of the Maui Health Foundation board of
directors. Maui Health Foundation is a non-profit organization which has provided support to health
care on Maui and Lanai for the past 25 years. A mission of the Foundation is to help provide the
people on Maui exceptional medical care and, to meet that mission, it is essential that we be able to
recruit and retain excellent medical professionals.
One of the challenges that the Foundation has faced is that many of the medical professionals we seek
to hire have difficulty finding housing on Maui. To meet the goal of having available a safe, convenient
and comfortable living environment to doctors, nurses and other medical professionals, we need your
support of Resolution 22-85. The support of the Resolution will greatly enhance the quality of medical
professionals who we will be able to recruit and retain for Maui Memorial Hospital.
I was born at Maui Memorial Hospital, was raised on Maui and have family and friends who live on
Maui. I believe in the mission of the Maul Health Foundation; 1 believe in the efforts of the County of
Maui in its support of exceptional medical care; and I believe that, with your help, we can work
collaboratively in making medical care on Maul as great as it can possibly be.
Thank you.
Robert T. Takamatsu
CC: mimi.desiardins(5)co.maui.hl.us
Mimi Desjardins, Esq., Deputy Corporation Counsel, Dept, of the Corporation Counsel
Clerk of Maui County, County.clerk^mauicountv.us
Melinda, a.sweany^kp.org
Cassie.chavez(a>kp.org
tamar(Schotzen.com
REC~iVEDHonorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
20ZZ HAR 15 AH 7: 59
OrFlCE OF
COUNTY CLERK
~r I
RE: SUPPORTING RESOLUTION NO. 22-85, AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSIION OF REAL
PROPERTY TO THE MAUI HEALTH FOUNDAION AND FOR WAIVER IF OUTSTNDING REAL
PROPERTY TAXES
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Councilmembers.
I am Cory Lynn Vicens, and a Board Director on the Maui Health Foundation.
My family has been blessed to call Maui home for 35 years and to live in one of the most beautiful
places in the world that attracts visitors globally, but we often can’t attract or retain skilled medical
professionals for one reason, a place for them to call “home.”
I am asking you to support Resolution No. 22-85 because,
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place in the County of Maui that can provide critical,
lifesaving care to our residents and our visitors, and they do so for any who come through their
doors. For those with the most critical needs, there is often no other option. They do not have
the time to delay treatment or the strength to make the trip to another island to receive care.
In 2014 while traveling, my mother was admitted to Yale University Hospital, a top medical facility
in the nation with state-of-the-art equipment and staff, with a life-threatening condition. If the
situation was reversed and it was upon arriving home in Maui that this occurred it is likely she
would not have survived, because the hospital did not have the physicians or the equipment to
treat her condition which would have meant transporting her to Oahu. She did not have that time.
Seven years later, that is not the case, because the hospital recruited a top vascular doctor and
purchased equipment that is saving lives every day. But it took great effort to make that happen.
We aren’t just recruiting the physician but their family too which means, finding a “home” for more
than one person.
Today, the hospital is short more than 160 physicians (in specialties ranging from urology to
orthopedics) and 75 registered nurses, despite hiring every single graduate from Maui College,
every year this was compounded by the pandemic over the past two years. In total the hospital
currently has over 400 vacancies.
Why is this? Because the greatest obstacle to the recruitment and retention of physicians and
other health care professionals is the lack of available and affordable housing on Maui, thus
making health care even more challenging for our healthcare system.
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui.
Passing Reso No. 22-85 will enable us to attract medical professionals who can meet the
healthcare needs in our community, allow Maui-born medical professionals who want to return
Council Chair Lee, Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez & Councilmembers
March 13. 2022
pg- 2
home to practice medicine to do so, and retain current Maui care providers looking to purchase
their first home on Maui.
Having a place to live and call home is one of the most basic and important human needs there
is. How can we ensure the quality of life for ail who call Maui home if the medical professionals
we need here can’t afford to live here?
Please support the Maui Lani Reso 22-85!
Mahalo nui for your consideration,
Cory Vicens
Board Director, Maui Health Foundation
Contact Info.
Cory Lynn M. Vicens
2465 Waipua St. Paia HI 96779
corvvicens@qmail.com
808.633.6962
Cc. county.clerk@mauicountv. us
Councilmembers
Tamar Goodfellow, Chair of the Board of Directors, Maui Health Foundation
Melinda A. Sweany, Chief Development Officer, Maui Health Foundation
Count^GeH<
From:
Sent:
Karen Williams <karenparadise01@gmail.com>
Sunday, March 13, 2022 8:45 AM
County Clerk; Alice L Lee; Keani N. Rawlins; Tasha A. Kama; Gabe Johnson; Kelly King;
Mike J. Molina; Tamara A. Paltin; Shane M. Sinenci; Yukilei Sugimura; Melinda Sweany;
Cassandra Chavez; Tamar Goodfellow
RESOLUTION 22-85
To:
Subject:
Some people who received this message don't often get email from karenparadise01@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Hello, my name is Karen Williams, and I am a resident of Maui. I volunteer my time on the Foundation Board of Maui
Memorial Medical Center (Maui Health). The Foundation Board raises money to help support the health and wellness of
our community and visitors. Since we are on an island, it is imperative that we have World Class Healthcare available to
all residents and visitors!
A place to live is one of the most basic and important human needs there is. How can
we ensure the quality of life for all who call Maui home if the medical professionals we
need here can't afford to live here? That is why  1am begging you to support the Maui Lani resolution!
Maui Memorial Medical Center is the only place on this island that can provide critical, lifesaving care! We need to be
able to Save Lives on Maui! For those with critical needs, there is no other option, as many do not have the luxury of
time or can afford to seek treatment on the mainland or another island. The ER at Maui Memorial is the second busiest
in the state of Hawaii!
Today, Maui Memorial Medical Center is currently short 160 physicians in specialties
ranging from family and internal medicine to oncology, heart and lung surgery,
orthopedics, and urology. The hospital is also short 75 registered nurses, despite hiring every single graduate of the
University of Hawaii Maui College, every year. The number one difficulty in recruiting healthcare workers to Maui is the
inability to be able to afford to purchase a home.
This shortage directly impacts the quality of life for all on Maui.
The Maul Lani Housing Initiative will enable us to:
●  Attract medical professionals who can meet the greatest healthcare needs in our community
●  Allow Maui born professionals who wish to return home to practice medicine
●  Retain current Maui care providers who are looking to purchase their first home on Maui
That is why I ask you to support the Maui Lani resolution. It is a Win-Win!
Many Mahalos! Oi:
cc rnKaren Williams
30 Maluaka Place
Unit 201
Kihei, HI 96753
:3D
^.O-Hrn●<
Oox \ 1
m
a\-nrn CO
1