MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-07-01
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1313,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
July 1,2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII. WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS. ON FRIDAY, JULY 1. 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:06 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Willthe Maui County Council regularcouncilmeeting of
July 1,2022, please come to order.
Itisapproximately9:06 a.m. Good morning, everyone. The morning greetingis...
from Africa.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY KAOHU: Chair,proceeding with rollcall.Members participating
from non-publiclocationsshould statewho ifanyone ispresent withthem as partof
the rollcall.
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: ... Chair and aloha kakahiaka. And I'mglad to see everybody
here inthe, inthe Council Chambers. Look forward to a great meeting today. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and . . . Madam Chair and my fellowcolleagues and
everyone elsejoiningus forour Council meeting here today.
For the record,Iam transmittingfrom my residence here inMakawao and my wife is
in the other room and there are no testifiers In the Paia District Office. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 2
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka and ... to all of the folksfrom Ghana watching.
Thank you forthatmorning greeting,Chair. And Iam reportingfrom the.our District
Office inSouth Maui thatwe have no testifierstoday.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Good to be here.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: . . . Chair and Councilmembers. I'm home alone in my
workspace on Lana'iand there are no testifiersat the Lana'iDistrictOffice.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . kakou and aloha kakahiaka. I'm broadcasting liveand
directfrom Hilotown. Inthe house with me are my parents,my husband, and my kids.
And at the table with me ismy brother,David Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: Good to see you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And there are no testifiers at the Lahaina District Office at this
time. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . . . everybody. And it'sgood to be here in the Council
Chambers, but I reallywant to say is I'm glad to see so many people here to testify
cause it'susuallyvery lonelyhere inthe chambers. So, welcome everybody thathas
made the effortto be with us. Appreciate you a lot.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 3
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Maui Nui a Kama at the
County Building.And Iunderstand there are no testifiersat the Molokai DistrictOffice.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: ...everyone. And welcome to allof our visitorstoday inthe Chambers, it'sso
good to see you. Thank you for coming and we look forward to a great meeting this
morning.
Madam Clerk.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W.
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER NATALIE A. KAMA.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are eight Members present,no Members absent, and one
Member excused. A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record,Iam County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. And also present from the Officeof
the County Clerk,LegislativeDivisionstaffJoyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell
Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and FirstDeputy Corporation Counsel RichelleThomson.
CHAIR LEE: A littlelouder. Opening remarks thismorning willbe provided by Councilmember
Gabe Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 4
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offeredby Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Johnson.
Now everyone, please joinme in recitingthe Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep theirmicrophones muted unless of course, itisyour time to speak. Decorum
shall be maintained at all times.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Members, at thistime, we willset the Consent Calendar. As a reminder the
calendar can stillbe adjusted even afteritisset. Are there any requested changes to
the Consent Calendar at this time? I see no hands. Okay.
Members can add or remove items to the Consent Calendar once done. Are there any
objections to settingthe Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: No objections,so ordered. The Consent Calendar isset.
Ms. Clerk,please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony. Members of the
public may testifyin the Council Chambers, at courtesy testimony sites,or remotely
through the informationlistedon the meeting agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 5
Individualsinthe Chambers may sign up to testifywith a staffmember located at the
desk in the floorlobby. Individualsat courtesy testimony sites may sign up with
staffat the site. Individualsparticipatingremotely may sign up inthe meeting chat. If
you are connected to the meeting by phone, you willautomatically be added to the
testifier list.
Individualsconnected by phone are currentlyon mute and willbe unmuted when itis
theirtime to testify.Individualsconnected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphone offand should turn them on only when itistheirtime to testify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforup to
three minutes, with one minute to conclude per item. When testifying,please state
your name and the name of any organization you represent, as well as the items on
which you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only Councilmembers, staff,and designated resource
persons willbe connected to the meeting. Allother individualswillbe disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media,
Channel 53, or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individualsmay also be disconnected
from the meeting at any time forbreaking decorum.
Chair,your firstperson to testifyisSera Manjarrez and Chad Adolpho. To be followed
by Sandy Baz.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. SERA MANJARREZ (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-56):
Hello. Good morning. My name isSera Manjarrez and I'm here on behalfof myself,
my childrenand forour futuregenerations. There's no reason why foreigncorporations
need to have ownership of our water, thirtyplus years, actually,at all.So, Iurge you
to please leave ithere, with us, the people and ifyou'reforthe people,you willensure
that itstays thatway. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member Kelly King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Ijustwanted to clarifythatyou'respeaking on
22-47 [sic].The water authority?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 6
MS. MANJARREZ: Oh. I'msorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; That'sokay. Just wanted to make that clear. Insupport. Alright,
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? Ifnot,please proceed.
MR. CHAD ADOLPHO (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-56):
Aloha, my name isChad Adolpho and I'mtestifyingon behalfof myself,my family,my
kids, my ancestors, and for future generations. You know, we get one saying,
"Ola I Ka Wai", "Water isLife"and itneeds to stay withthe people,forthe people,yeah,
not for these big corporationsthat continue to stealour resources fortheirfinancial
gain. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you. Thank you for
coming. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: The next testifierisSandy Baz, to be followedby Chief John Pelletier.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Baz isonline. Good morning.
MANAGING DIRECTOR SANDY BAZ (testifyingon County Communication Nos. 22-151 and
22-154: Committee Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55, 22-56, and 22-57: and Resolution
Nos. 22-111. 22-115, 22-116. 22-121, and 22-122V.
Good . . .yeah . . .and good morning, everyone. Aloha kakahiaka. So yes, Sandy
Baz testifyingon behalf of Mayor Victorinoon a number of items relatedto today's
agenda.
First,I'dliketo,and Ididn'tput thisdown, but I'dliketo offerour supportforCR 22-55,
which is relatedto the idea of being able to have a, in the Charter requirement, you
know, the abilityto telework and alternativework schedules. Ithinkthatit'sa good way
moving forward. So, thank you, Members foraddressing thatitem.
Also, we're in support of allof the cost items and appreciateyou takingthese up ina
timely manner for the collectivebargaining agreements with,we want to be able to
move forward and pay our employees these new ratesbased on those costitems.So,
thank you foryour support inthatas well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 7
Now, Ido want to offeropposition,and Iapologize forthe change here. I'm actually
over at HGEA, and I'm in arbitrationhearing but Iwanted to make sure thatwe testify
on these items.
So related to Committee Report 22-56, this is related to the water authority,and I
understand there is a county communication to adjust that as well. The Mayor isin
oppositionto thisforvarious reasons. One of the biggestones isthatbelievingthat
this item can be resolved with, he believes that this item can be resolved with the
County Code changes, and not necessarilyneeding itto be on ballotwith so many
other items on the ballot as well.
The second item to provide oppositionto is22-57, and thisisrelatedto the planning
commissions forevery community plan area. We feelthatthiswillcreate,our Mayor
feels this willcreate a disconnect between our communities, because there won't be,
especiallyon the island of Maui, you know, Molokai and Lanai already have their
planning commissions, and you know, they do the authorityrelatedto theirspecific
islands. But when itcomes to Maui Island,having a Maui Planning Commission that
oversees allof the County is a real benefitto our community. Ifthere'sseparate
planning commissions for each district,we feel that there might be disconnects
between them. And also the Mayor's Officehas challenges ingeneralgettingboard
and commission members, and adding fiveor six more commissions willcreate more
challengesto that.Iunderstand there'slesscommission members proposed,butstill,
thatmight be a challenge withinthose specificdistricts.
And then the lastitem,and you willhear a lotfrom the County departments isrelated
to CC 22-154 and I believe there's a Bill21 as well, related to the outdoor lighting.
There are some concerns that our departments have, and they willshare those with
you. But reallywhat we're asking forissome more timetowork withthe Chairofthe
Committee. So, ifwe could get that back to committee-level,and then we can work
with the departments on the challenges thatyou willhear from them today. So, thank
you. Chair,forthe time. I appreciatethe opportunity,and open forany questionsat
thismoment, ifyou have?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here, Sandy, well,
virtually.A questionabout the,22-57. So basicallywhat you'resayingisthe Mayor is
okay withthe Molokai districtand Lanai districthaving theirown planningcommissions,
but not the districtson the island of Maui, where we have, you know, seven districts,
separate districts?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 8
MANAGING DIRECTOR BAZ: Yeah, correct. Again, the idea of Molokai and Lanai being
theirown island,theirown community and them having the sovereignty as faras land
use at the planning commission levels,isIthink,he thinksisa good thing. But when
itcomes to Maui Island,you know, and the communities and how integratedthey are,
and should be, and should remain, it'slike,he feels likethe planning commission at
the Maui Island level should remain.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, and with basicallynine people representingthe bulk ofthe
population. Okay, thank you.
MANAGING DIRECTOR BAZ: As it'sset-up now. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin and then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Ijustwanted to clarify,Ithought Ihad heard
DirectorBaz say thatthe Maui Planning Commission oversees the County ofMaui and
Ijustwanted, that'sthe islandof Maui you meant; right?
MANAGING DIRECTOR BAZ: Yeah, apologize ifImisspoke. Yes, the Islandof Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, okay. That’sall.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair and mahalo DirectorBaz foryour testimony
this morning. I was just checking, you mentioned about the water authoritybeing
created by Code. And so, Iwas justcuriousif,would the Mayor be open tosubmitting
legislation?
MANAGING DIRECTOR BAZ: Ah. Sure, we could discuss with you the intentions,and Code.
Imean, whether the Mayor submits it,or it'ssubmitted by Council,by you as the Chair
of the Committee, you know, we could work on the language of the Code with
Corporation Counsel to make sure that itaddresses the concerns that Corporation
Counsel has had with it,as well as the Mayor so that we can resolve thisand move
forward inwhat your desires are.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you forthatcomment. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much Mr. Baz. Good luckwiththe
negotiations.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 9
MANAGING DIRECTOR BAZ: Okay. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Members.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisChief John Pelletier,to be followed by Napua Hueu.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Chief.
CHIEF OF POLICE JOHN PELLETIER ftestifyinq on County Communication No. 22-154 and
Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good morning. Aloha. Itisan absolute honor to be here. It'sprettyexcitingto actually
do thisinperson, versus an Ipad or a screen, and itmeans more than you realize.And
so Iknow Igot three minutes and Iprobably justcommitted 30 seconds to it.
So, letme justvery quicklysay, I'm here to testifyon item number 21, the temporary
lighting,or the lightingissue. And what I'masking foristhatwe place the publicsafety
exemption back in. It'simperativeas we move forward ina community, and we realize
that for 12 of 24 hours we have low-lightconditions,and crime and issues with public
safetydon'tjuststop forthose 12 hours.
And what we need to do is make sure that officers and other first-respondershave
access to lightsand equipment to facilitateand allow them to do theirjobs. What am I
talkingabout specifically?Emergency response to car accidents,DUI check points,
attempts to locatesuspects, barricades,or hostage rescues. Just thinkabout this,if
you have somebody thatjumps a fence, breaks intoa house and holds somebody
hostage, we need to have our tacticalteams and our firstresponders to lightthat
situationup, and thatneeds to be bright.And we can'thave publicsafetycompromised
forthis.And so,we're not talkingabout a whole lotofsituations,butwe're talkingabout
the specificones thatwould be used forfirstresponders.
We were not inthe Committee on the beginning, or 1myself wasn't. 1would be more
than happy to volunteermyself,or members of my staff,ifwe could get thistogo back?
We could get itrecommitted, or however we choose to do that? But Iwant to make
sure that that offeristhere,and I'm humbly asking thatwe could have a publicsafety
exemption added to this,should itmove forward? That's it.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thank you forbeing here. Chief.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 10
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We do have the publicsafetyexemption added back in,in the,
the summary, of the Amendment Summary Form, today. So thatwillgo in. However,
ijustwanted to also ask you, because the blue wavelength, the lower blue wavelength
does not necessarily affectbrightness. You can stillhave brightlights.So, while we
have thatexemption maybe going forward,we could explore ifthere are lightsthat,that
qualify,thatfityour, your needs, you know, going forward? Because those lightsare
availablenow, but Ido understand there are lightsthatyou don'thave ininventory.So,
we did make thatexemption.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Great.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We put thatback in.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Iappreciate it.Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Iwould, Iguess I'msurprisedthatyou weren'tasked
to comment on thissince you playa big roleinour community and thank you forcoming
today to offeryour,you know, your actualexpertisebecause Ithinkyou have a special
place inour community. So, appreciatethat.And Ireallyam, ifthere'san ASF, which
isAmendment Summary Form, which isour format,when we have changes to a bill.
But Ireallywould liketo have thisdiscussed greaterso thatwe make sure we get your
publicsafetycorrect,you know, and what would thatinvolve.Because your example
of the impact ishuge.
So, thank you very much, and Idon'tknow ifthere'sa, there'sa universalway of,or
definitionof "publicsafety".But Ithinkitgoes deeper than two words. So, thank you
very much forofferingthat. Iwould liketo offer,take you up on your offer.Thank you.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: No, thank you. And in any way to facilitatethat,whether
it'sone-on-ones or breakout or however itgoes in Committee, ifwe can builda more
robust mechanism to get thatinformation,more than happy to do that.Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 11
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha. Chief Pelletier. Mahalo for
being with us and foryour testimony thismorning. So, I'm not a votingmember of the
CARE Committee and I wasn't in attendance for this discussion. Ican stillattend, I'm
stillwelcome to,I'mjustnot a voting member. And so, I'm wondering, I'm just learning
about the amendment thatwas made. Do you know ifanyone inthe Police Department
was consulted or had an opportunity to review the proposed amendment for the
Amendment Summary Form thatwillbe introduced latertoday?
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: My understanding was no on the beginning,but I'mhearing
that there seems to be a desire to do so now. So I hope thatanswers that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, so the answer isyou didn'tget an opportunity
to view the language .. .
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: No opportunity at the beginning, but! think itappears that
the comments are being heard now, so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. And Iguess Iknow you're,you know, out inthe
field,and busy being around. I'm just,I guess I'm like,concerned, likeifI have
questions when the Amendment Summary Form is, comes up later,likewould
someone from the department be able to serve as a resource ifitdoesn't, ifthe
language doesn't do enough to address the concerns that you're sharing with us in
testimony?
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Absolutely. And it'simportant enough that I'm here today.
And so I'llmake sure thatthattakes place.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chief. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,justone last.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. So, we did, Ijust got a note from Officeof Council
Services, because we did tryto contact the Police Department. We sent a letteron
February 24 to you. Chief,and understanding, understanding ifwe, ifyou didn'tget it.
But, you know, we've been working on thisbillover several committee meetings, and
we startedearlyon contactingallthe departments, so.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 12
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: February 24-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: February 24.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: -it'sthe day thatTerryJones died,so there'sa lotofthings
thatmaybe we didn'tget thatwould be normally processed through.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But Ijustwanted you to know thatwe did.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: I'm not going to use thatas an excuse, but,but obviously-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, no, it’sokay. Ijustwanted you to know thatwe reached out.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: -some of our letters were a littlebacklogged. But I
personallydidn'tget it.And so, again, it'snot an excuse, but,which iswhy we're here
today to,to see ifwe can'tget thisright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Iappreciatethat.Thank you.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you. Chief.
CHIEF OF POLICE PELLETIER: Mahalo. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifierisNapua Hueu, to be followed by Cullan Bell.
MS. NAPUA HUEU (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-56):
Aloha, Chair and to the County Councilmembers. My name is Napua Hueu, I am
testifyingon CR 56.
Iam a seventh generation kalo farmer of East Maui and the Community Coordinator of
the Honomanu Lo‘iRestoration Project.This ismy fourthtime testifyingon thismatter,
and my 34^^year advocatingforresponsiblewater resourcemanagement through my
life-longperpetrationoftarofarming and relentlessfrontlineadvocacy on the issue. My
ancestor John Kalawaianui Hueu was the firstinmy familyto advocate forwater justice
in 1881, which speaks to how long we have been communicating the imminent harm
to kalo farmers at the continued mismanagement of water resources.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 13
The State of Hawaii continues to place corporate needs over the people, and we are
141 years overdue forresolution.Iappreciate thisresolutionput forward by Mr. Sinenci
that aims to provide a voice to the people of Maui County to present concerns and
needs and data and informationfrom theirrespectiveareas.
Prior to this measure the government has received most of theirdata from the
corporation that diverts the water for their commercial farming needs, which has
hampered the abilityof our small and indigenous farmers to sustain theirown food
production needs and objectives. Itisimperative thatthisproposed community water
authoritybe formed, so thatthe community members can be heard.
HistoricallyEast Maui's concerns and negotiationshave been represented by one
nonprofitorganization,which has on oftentimes muted the predicament and concerns
coming from smaller taro farming ahupua'a; such as Honomanu and East Maka'iwa,
otherwise known as the Waikamoi area. Itis important to give a voice to the entire
community, so we may hear the intricaciesof effectsposed on allof our farmers and
not exclusivelylimitthe conversationto those largerfarming communities thathave the
capacitytoform and maintain nonprofitorganizations.Farmers should not be excluded
from ecologicalaccounting based on theirlackof 501 (c)(3)representation.
Many of our islandresidents come out to East Maui to forage forfood and supplement
their needs because East Maui has an abundance of wild food resources and quality
food resources. East Maui already grows more nutritiousfood than Central Maui is
producing, but the continued dewatering of our watershed without corporate
accountabilityhas already and willcontinue to killoffthe vitalityofour abilityto continue
producing water, wild food resources, and procured indigenousfood resourcessuch
as kalo.
We need to empower East Maui thathas the abilitytofeed our County withoutthe need
of divertingwater from the source and harming otherfarmers inthe process. East Maui
was the breadbasket and largestfood producing region ofthisisland.The indigenous
agricultureinfrastructureto feed Hawaii existsinEast Maui. The onlythingmissing is
the water and support of our potential.Itislogicalto stop divertingthe majorityofwater
out of East Maui to farm in the desertified Central Maui plain. There is more than
enough water forUpcountry residential,commercial, and agriculturalneeds. We just
need better management.
Please support CR 56 to help balance the water management on our islandbeforeit
istoo late. 1wanted to note that Mayor Victohno islikelyonly inoppositionto thisdue
to his repeated campaign donations from Alexander & Baldwin,the corporationthat
has unrightfullycontrolledour water to date, Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 14
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Cullan Bell,to be followed by Michael Kehano.
MR. CULLAN BELL (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-56):
Aloha, Council, Chair. Thank you for puttingthison today. One thing Iwant to talk
about istransparency or the lack thereof. Ifound out about this,a friendKim, thank
you fornotifyingus thatthiswas going on. But Iwant to quote. Councilman Stnenci,
"When a private for profitentityacquires the rightto water, the water becomes an
economic commodity. By acquiringthese leases the County has the opportunityto
manage the water resources as a publictrust,assure equitableratesforallfarmers,
and furtherthe County's and State's goals of food securityand sustainabilityforour
localagriculture".So, forover a century A&B and now A&B and Mahi Pono are trying
to control our waters.
Iam infavorof CR 56, and per Hawaii State Constitution,water needs to be managed
in a publictrust,not by a privateforeignentityor a privatecorporation.We need to
have a voice and itstime that we startstanding up and startshowing up to more of
these and voicingour opinions and we need to stand up forour people,forour kids,
and forgenerations to come. Because we've seen what the largestland buy inHawaii
historyhas done, itturned our centralvalleyintoa giantdust storm every day and local
farmers are struggling,paying, you know, 100% of what Mahi Pono ispaying forthe
water rightnow, over that. So, it'stime that more people stand up. Stand up forour
children,like I said, and stand up for our local farmers. We were once food
independent, we can be close to that again. We can startmoving and you know,
moving the wheels in motion for change, and being food independent, and securing
futuresforour children. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Could you wait,could you wait,please, Mr. Bell?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez has a question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Bell.
MR. BELL: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 15
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo foryour testimony. I,I understand that you
just recently learned about this. There are two proposals on today’s agenda.
CR 22-56. which you testifiedin support of, and that'sthe establishment of an East
Maui Community Water Authority.
Communication 22-151, which would establish a Maui County Community Water
Authorityand an East Maui Community Regional Board. Did you have an opportunity
to review CC 22-151?
Member Sinenci also proposed County
MR. BELL: Idid not. Idefinitelywillthough.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Iwas going to ask your opinion of that.
MR. BELL; I'llreview itand maybe we can talkstoryafter.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Members?
Ifnot, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris Michael Kehano.
MR. MICHAEL KEHANO (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47);
Good morning. Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name isMichael Kehano
I'm the Solid Waste DivisionChief forthe County of Maui.
I'm testifyingon Committee Report 22-47, regarding amendments to the outdoor
lightingcode. The proposed billremoves the exemption fortemporary lighting.Since
our County landfillsbegin operations before the sun risesand afterthe sun sets,we
utilizetemporary lighttrees to lightthe working area for our landfillwhen it'sdark.
Without the temporary lighttrees,there'sonly the lightingfrom the equipment or refuse
trucks dumping inthe working area, which makes itdifficultto see when it'sdark. We
also have our landfillattendants on the ground, that have to directthe refuse trucks,
proper dumping areas. And without temporary lighting,those employees are hard to
see, unless they are directlyinthe lightofthe trucksor equipment.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 16
While the SolidWaste Divisiondoes support the intentof the billto protect seabirds,
we are requesting that you consider amending the billto allow for an exemption for
temporary lighting.Thank you foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members?
Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Kehano.
MR. KEHANO: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: What's causing the feedback? Mr. Kehano's? Okay. Please callthe next
testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Dennis O'Shea, to be followed by Dick Mayer.
MR. DENNIS O'SHEA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Council. Chair. Thanks for having us thismorning. I'm here thismorning realquickly
justto talkabout something Ilearned about actuallyjustyesterday.
I have had some conversations in the last few months with some local farmers, small
farmers from Kula, Haiku, to Hana. Was out at Honomanu lastSunday, actuallywith
Napua and I'mhere to ask you to vote forthe 22-56 mainly because what concerns me
is,anytime you have a foreign entityor corporation in charge of publicwaters, itnever
seems to go well.I'veread several other studiesfrom other states. The farmers their
main concern that I've talked to them about is that if Mahi Pono, the Canadian
corporation isallowed to controlthe water forthe next 20 to 50 years, small farms from
likeI said,Kula to Hana willbe pinched out and non-existentin several years. And
they are actuallythe ones who are providing us with healthy organic foods through
businesses likethe Food Hub in Kahului. So thatgives me great concern.
Anytime a corporationisincharge of anything,especiallya foreigncorporation,itjust
isn'ta good, good idea. And when Ihear people thatare forthat,I,itjustmakes me
wonder what the motivation is, especially with like Mayor Victorino. I just don't
understand how your motivationcould be to take something likethatfrom the people
and give itto a corporation,especiallya corporationthatisnot from here and from what
I'vewitnessed, not doing such great things.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 17
And Iremember, drivingthrough Central Maui as a lifeguardcoming from Paia side to
thisside to work and itwas green, obviously because we had sugarcane but now we
do not. it'sturned into a desert and there are dust storms and dust devils daily. My
house is dirtier than it’sever been. And I believe trulythatthisisbecause of some of
the actions from the corporate farming entities,by fencing off areas, causing wild
animals to up intothe Upcountry areas and become nuisance and that'sa whole other
issue.
With regard to 22-151, what Iwould ask also isto have thisboard that'sgoing to be
created ifwe go thisdirection,have the board members be elected by the people, not
selected by a government or any corporate entitybecause we allknow how thatgoes,
right? I mean. I'veapplied a couple of times for some committees and when the
government selects those people instead of being elected, ittends to go a certain
directionand thatgives me concern as a citizenas well.
Anyhow, that's,that'sall1got to say, Ijust hope that you guys willvote in the right
directionforthe people. And keep the water rights,or bringthe water rightsback to
the people. Because Ibelieveas a citizenthe people know what's best forthem, not
a corporation.Corporations always do what's good forthe corporation.I'venever seen
itany other way, so that'smy concern. Iappreciateyour time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just realquick. Thank you. Chair. Ijustwanted to,ifyou could
clarifywhat boards and commissions thatyou've appliedfor?
MR. O'SHEA: South Maui Planning Commission?
We don't have a PlanningCOUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, Planning Commission.
Commission yet. We're hoping to get one.
MR. O'SHEA: The CPAC.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, CPAC. That has not been appointed yet.
MR. O’SHEA: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just to letyou know. So, yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 18
MR. O'SHEA: I'veapplied for it,Ihaven't heard back.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Good to know. Nobody's heard back yet. So.
MR. O'SHEA: Will we hear back soon?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yesterday was the deadline and so thisnext week we're going to
be sortingthrough allthe applicants.
MR. O'SHEA: Okay, great. Iappreciate it.Hopefully I'llhear back soon.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
MR. O'SHEA: Alright.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. we have one more question.
Member Paitin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry,Imissed, what was your name?
MR. O'SHEA: Dennis O'Shea.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
MR. O'SHEA: Yes. ma'am.
CHAIR LEE: That's all? Anybody else? Ifnot,thank you Mr. O'Shea.
MR. O'SHEA: Thank you. Have a good day.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,our next testifierisDick Mayer, to be followedby Raymond Jordan.
MR. DICK MAYER (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee Report
Nos. 22-56 and 22-57):
Good morning, Councilmembers. Can you hear me? Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 19
MR. MAYER: I would liketo speak on two items, the two Charter amendments that are
possibly going to be added to our November ballot.
The firstdeals with the Planning Commissions. As you've heard from me before. I
stronglysupport the idea ofhaving each ofour districtson Maui having itsown planning
commissions. One ofthe objectionsofthe Administration,the Planning Directoristhat
thisisgoing to be difficultto get people to do this.What ishappening iswe're going
from having one advisory committee in Hana, one in South Maui, and one in North
Maui, with thismembership and one Central planning commission. We'll be reducing
that down now to seven members on each of these boards. We no longer willhave
the Central Maui planning commission and so Idon'tthinkthe additionof CentralMaui,
Upcountry Maui, and West Maui willadd many more people. Itwould not be much
more of a burden to get the people to represent theirarea. But the decision-making
willbe greatlyenhanced by having people knowledgeable about the issues coming up
intheirarea and givingthem the abilityto,to make decisions, itwillallowformeetings
much more easily,Ithinkto be held inthe evenings so the citizenry,the community of
Maui willbe able to participate.
And so. I'm going to stronglyurge thatyou put thison the ballotand allowthe votersof
Maui to decide. Lana'i and Moloka'i already has a planning commission, and both of
them have much lower populations than West, Central,or Upcountry Maui. And Ithink
it‘stime foreach of the districtsof the County to have a voice intheirown communities'
development and changes. So, please support that.
The second Charter amendment isthe one dealing with the water authority.There are
two items on the agenda, today. I‘m going to urge you to support 22-151, the
committee, the committee communication which would allow for a water authorityfor
the County with a provisionthatEast Maui would be able to establishitsown advisiory
body initially.Subsequently, over the years, itmay turn out that West Maui or
Na Wai ‘Eha area, or Moloka'i, or Lana'i forthat matter, each of the other areas where
there are watersheds could establish their own water commission. Ithinkwe're setting
the basis forthatat thistime without making a permanent commitment, but thatwillbe
inthe hands of the Council to set those bodies up when the time comes.
Urn,22-151, which severalpeople have, inEast Maui have spoken toisexcellent.Only
the 22-56, isthe one they spoke up on. 22-151 isbetterbecause itincludesthe East
Maui and itsets up a Centralwater authority.I'msad to hear the Administration,Sandy
Baz, the Mayor, opposing these thingsbecause Ithinkthese are progressiveideas that
will move Maui forward and be able to take care of two major concerns thatwe have in
the County, good planning and our water, administratingour water.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 20
So please put these on the ballotand I'llbe glad to answer any questions you have on
why Iwould liketo see thathappen. Thank you and wish you well. And Ijustwant to
point out,today isthe firsttime l‘veever seen over 100 people were in the chat area
forthismeeting showing the strong interestof the general public inwhat you're doing
today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you, Dick.
MR, MAYER: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisRaymond Jordan, to be followed by Leslee Matthews.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
MR. RAYMOND JORDAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-56):
Thank you. Appreciate your time. I'm here on 22-56. Ithinkmany members here,
attendance have voiced theirsupport or opposition to this.Inmy one, and I'mnot even
sure how we got to thispoint,where thisisactuallybeing put up on ballot.A foreign
entitycontrollingyour water supply is,itsmadness. And I,and Ihope the Members
here understand that allowing that to go forward it'sborderline treason. Do you
understand this? So Iwould encourage everybody, and Iappreciatethe positionabout
puttingthisto a legislativevote. But,you know, as a East Maui residentmyself,you
know. I'mforhanding thisto the people,where italways should have been along with
a number of other things that I'mjustseeing pop-up over,and over,and over where
we're systematicallyhaving our rightsand our inheritedbenefitsstrippedfrom us,
through variousmeans. So, Iappreciatethe Council'stime. And any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Jordan. Mahalo foryour
testimony.
I just wanted to clarifythe portion in your testimony where, itwasn't clear ifyou
understood thatrightnow the EMI iscontrolled,controlledby Mahi Pono? Currently.
MR. JORDAN. Currently.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 21
MR. JORDAN; This is,thisispartof the problem.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Hence the proposal.
MR. JORDAN; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
MR. JORDAN; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I just wanted to clarifythat. Okay, mahalo
Mr. Jordan. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. JORDAN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris Leslee Matthews, to be followed by Jay
Penniman.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning, Leslee.
MS. LESLEE MATTHEWS (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151; Committee
Report Nos. 22-56 & 22-47; and Resolution Nos. 22-166 & 22-168):
Oh, good morning. Sorry,Icouldn'thear. Good morning, Councilmembers. My name
is Leslee Matthew, I am an attorney and social worker, and I had a few items that I
wanted to testifyon.
The Resolution 22-168, inthe wake of the devastating opinion by the Supreme Court
overturningRoe vs. Wade, I'm in strong support of a women's rightto choose and to
have autonomy over theirbody. And Isupport,you know, the legislationthat'sbeen
codifiedat the State levelto support a women's rightto choose, and birthingpeople's
rightto choose. Iwould justliketo,you know, the Constitutionwas writtenby people
that were engaged in internationalhuman trafficking,genocide, and by people that
didn'tlook likeme and thought people likeme should be three-fifthsof a person. And
so, you know, we have to continue moving forward thatpeople should have theirright
to bodilyautonomy over theirown bodies.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 22
And for22-168, Iwould just liketo request thatthe people thatthe resolutionisgoing
to be expanded to the Speaker of the House, the President of the Senate, and also
Senator Manchin, who is one of the only Democratic Senators that voted against
codifyingRoe intolaw. Ithink that they need to know that they have support from
places likeMaui County. It'sjustreallydevastatingthatsomebody finda time dock to
take us back intime, so that we woke up with less rightsthan when we went to sleep.
And Ialso,Ialso am very gratefulthatwe put in how thisdisproportionatelyimpacts
Native Hawaiian women, Black, Latino women. Abortion willalways happen, itwilljust
happen less safely. People willfinda way to get access. Those thatare wealthywill
have access to,it’sa reproductivejusticeissue.
And then moving on to 22-166, the,about the camping, encouraging the Department
of the ProsecutingAttorneyto work with DLNR to enforce camping. A lotofwhat was
mentioned inthe resolutionhas to deal with the community of houseless friends,and
it does not include any social service agency to work in collaborationwith the
Department of the Prosecuting Attorney or DLNR. And I thinkit'sa bad resolution
that's,it'sjust misplaced that we would have, the Prosecutor'sOfficeis a law
enforcement agency: DLNR is a law enforcement agency. We do not need law
enforcement to help people thatare incrisis.
The 80 people thatwere displaced from theirhomes, there'snow a lawsuitthathas
been leviedagainstthe County forthe horribleway thattheytreatedpeople and their
belongings and theirthings. And so, you know, whereas, we do have an issuewith,
perhaps, using camping and things likethatfor,you know, tourism,the issuesthatare
specificallymentioned inthe resolutionhas to deal with our homeless, our houseless
friends. And so, we, this should at least involve some socialservice agency that's
participatingand certainlynot law enforcement. We do notneed more law enforcement
terrorizingour friendsthathave fallenon hard times.
And then also moving on to 22-56, and 151. I'm instrong support of a, of,you know,
we're talkingabout bodilyautonomy and justcontrolover your own resources. And so,
lookingatwater,you know, water islifeand thisisthe historicdates,returnedthe most
precious of our resources tofuturegenerations,and to stopwater theftby corporations
likeA&B, Mahi Pono. This has good implicationson climatechange, food security,
and populationgrowth. So, Isupport whether itisat a County-levelwitha designation
for East Maui, but Idefinitelythinkthatthere should be a priorityforEast Maui. When
Igo with my aunties . . .
CHAIR LEE: Leslee, we can'thear you. Could you turn your video off,maybe thatwillhelp?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 23
MS. MATTHEWS: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. MATTHEWS: Okay, thank you. So just,you know, from a personal place of watching
my family,you know, on theirfarms here on Maui, and you know, seeing how the
resource ofwater has been so mismanaged, and there'sbeen a priorityof a corporation
over the people. It'sreallydevastating,especiallyin a time where we know thatMaui
can grow enough food to feed our people. And so, you know, Iwanted to speak about
that and so whether that, likeIsaid is in 56 or 22-151.
And I'm insupport for protectingour seabirds with lighting.And Iwould justhope that,
you know, the, the County departments that have concerns about these issues,us
regular folks have to keep up with the agendas, and make sure thatwe're staying
abreast of the issues and these things are so important that,you know, everybody has
a voice inour government and to,you know, be involvedand respond to requestsfrom
Councilmembers, so that we can move the legislationforward to help protectour
wildlife.And so thank you forputtingthisforward.
So really,it'sjusta day of being able to controlour bodies;tocontrolour water,and to
take back power from oppressive, oppressive things. So, thank you so much forthe
opportunityto testify.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Matthews for your
testimony.
1had a question regarding your concerns on 22-166. Isit,ifitwas more aimed atthe
folkswho were rentingcamper vans to tourist,ratherthan the folksthatwere doing the
camping, would thatsatisfyyour concerns?
MS. MATTHEWS: Oh, yes. Thank you forthe question. Yeah, ifit'smore geared towards,
you know, unlawfultouristactivities,which, you know, atplaceslikeUkumehame that
are designated as County parks and things,they don't,the law prohibitsthattype of
activityfrom going on without a proper permit. So perhaps we need to be lookingat
that,and enforcing those things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 24
Because I'mjustlooking at the resolutionagain, and it’s,it'stalkingabout the issue,
you know, that are happening likeat Cut Mountain, what happened at Kanaha. And
those are issues of folks that are houseless and us not being able to provide affordable,
attainablehousing, and a continuum of care to take care of those people, which isa
completely separate issue from the unlawful touristactivitiesthat are happening by
those companies.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So justto clarify,iffolksare enabling supposed unlawfulactivity
fora profit,that'swhere you would likeus to directour efforts?
MS, MATTHEWS: Yes. Ithink that would be good. You know, I'veprosecuted those crimes
when Iwas at the Prosecutor's Office. Ithinkthat,you know, definitelycurbing those
activities,so thatpeople can be inlinewith,you know, get the proper permits,be inthe
proper places. But I think itconflates the issue, and italso involvesfolksthat are
houseless without resources. There's nothing of mention of social service.
Department of Housing and Human Concerns isn'tmentioned inthis.So, Ithinkthat
there are two differentissues. Icertainlythinkthattourism has a bad impact on people
that are houseless, and itdrives up the prices and things likethat. But Ithinkthey are
two separate issues.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much, Leslee.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifierisJay Penniman, followed by Byron Brown.
MR. JAY PENNIMAN. MAUI NUl SEABIRD RECOVERY PROJECT (testifyingon Committee
Report No. 22-47):
Aloha kakahiaka. . . . Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, Members of the
Committee, the Council.
Ithinkeverybody knows here my support forthe,what was Bill21, and Idon'treally
need to reiteratemuch of that. Seabirds are culturallyand biologicallyextremely
important,and thisbillisone of the thingsthatthe Councilcan do, both the Council
and the Administration have made excellent statements about resiliency and
addressing climatechange, and thisisan actualactionthatwilldo that.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 25
Iwant to emphasize, too.thatexemptions addressed inthe billas it'spresented foran
ordinance under Section 20.35.070, address holiday decorations. These have been
raised as saying you would not be able to have holidaydecorations, that is not true.
There's an exemption there. Safety and securityforwater features. Temporary road
and emergency lighting.The chiefspoke thismorning about the need foremergency
lightingthat is addressed in these exemptions. The billis ready for passage as itis
written.
I'dalso liketo pointout thatthe Maui Harbor Shops, Tapani Vuori atMaui Ocean Center
has kind of lead the way there. They are installingcompliantlightinginthatparkinglot
as we speak. They are inthe process, and withinthe next severalmonths, therewill
be compliant lightingin thatparking lot.A significantstep forward forthe Ma'alaea
area, which isrightthere by the water.
These fixturesare available. Ithink you might hear laterabout an Amazon available
bulb thatwas recentlysent fortesting.The specs on that,itiscompliant. There isa
Native Hawaiian woman owned and operated small business known as Solar Bollards.
They have supplied compliant lightingacross the State. There isLED Hawaii on the
Big Island,Hawaii thatsupplies compliant lighting.They're,the outfitthat'ssupplying
the Maui Harbor Shops isFirstLightTechnologies.
While these lightsmight not be immediately availableto everybody rightnow, thereare
vendors thatprovide them and there willbe more. And passing thisintoan ordinance
willshow entrepreneurs that there'sa business opportunityhere. These are, itisa
technology that'srapidlydeveloping, and itwillbring us positivebenefits.So, Ireally
encourage you to pass ittoday and on second reading. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions?
Member King,then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Somebody turn-offtheirphone. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Runaway bell.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you so much for being here, Mr. Penniman. My only
question was if,Chair,ifthere are no objections,ifwe could ask Mr. Penniman to be a
resource when we get to thatitem. And, and ifhe would liketo go home and do that
virtually,Ithinkthat'sfine. But you have so much expertiseinthisarea and you, and
you helped on the legislationas well.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 26
MR. PENNIMAN: I'llbe glad to do that.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Ifnot,look forward to talkingto you again later.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
MR. PENNIMAN: Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltinhas a question foryou, Mr. Penniman.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, no, it'snot a question. Ican hold tillthe item comes up. I
justwant to be sure that I'llbe able to ask him thatquestion when the item comes up
because inthe past sometimes, we ask people tostay as resource and then we weren't
able to ask them the question. So, Ican hold my question ifwe can ensure thatI’llget
an opportunityto ask itto him when the item comes up.
CHAIR LEE: Why don’twe ask the question now?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Mister, Imean, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Ijust,when you said the billisready to go
rightnow, I had a question about that,because the bills'three year exemption only
applies to fixturesinstalledpriorto the enactment of the ordinance. So, the question
isregarding new housing projectsthathaven'tyet installedtheiroutdoor lightsand are
inthe obtainingpermits phase of,and thatthe PublicWorks hasn’tyet developed the
criteriaby which they would verifycompliance with the ordinance,because it'snot yet
installedbut they're, like going through their process right now. So, I just was
wondering ifyou could speak to thatin regards to your,clarifyingyour comment that
the billisready to go?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 27
MR. PENNIMAN: Surely. Ido believethatany lightthatispurchased can be verifiedwith an
independent lightinginstitutesthat do this,and these lightsare available. So, there
should be no issue whatsoever in being able to verifythat the lightsthat would be
installedafterthisisenacted are compliant.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So justto clarify,you're saying that the lightbulb itselfcan go
intoany fixture?
MR. PENNIMAN: There are, it'snot that,just any fixture.There's a number of different
options forthe way thatlightsare put up, and there are compliant lightfixturesavailable
for every kind of lightingapplication.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, but,ifthey are currentlygoing through the buildingpermit
process and gettingtheirfixturesapproved, the, the ordinance takes effectupon
approval forthose ones, and then there'sa three year delay forthose thatare going,
that are already in. So, ifthere'sno criteriadeveloped at thistime to approve the
fixtures,then itcould cause a delay in housing being built,or isthat not how you see
it?
MR. PENNIMAN: Ido not see thatitwould be a delay inhousing building.You know, Ithink
that there are these fixturesavailable,these compliant lightsavailable,and itwould
just be a matter of procuring those.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, then Member King, and then Vice-Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, basically,can you name again the
companies thatare sellingyour lightbulbs thatyou're advocating for?
MR. PENNIMAN: There's C&W Energy Solutions.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: On what island?
MR. PENNIMAN: They are located inArizona.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Arizona? The Big Island.
MR. PENNIMAN: They are the ones who supplied the lightingforthe Big Islandforthe most
part.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So they are not even in Hawaii, so they'reshipping that?
Is this what. . .
CHAIR LEE: You want to ask a clarifyingquestion? He's coming back.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. Well,can, can you give us a listthatyou mentioned
inyour testimony?
MR. PENNIMAN: Okay. And then, LED Hawaii, islocated in Kapolei and Kailua-Kona.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We can get thatinformationwhen you come back.
Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to mention for everybody's
edificationthatthe ASF also delays the effectivedate. So, itwillnot be effectiveupon
passage.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Then Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez had a question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Penniman. Mahalo for
your testimony thismorning.
My question is regarding the exemptions that you listed. You mentioned holiday
lightings,emergency lightings,and Ididn'thear, maybe Imissed it,the lightingforthe
landfill,Idon'tthink itwould be considered emergency.
MR. PENNIMAN: No, Ithink that would fallunder the exemption that's,itstates,Idon't have
the wording here, but agriculturaloperations. And itseemed clear to me thatthe way
that,you could look at 20.35.070, and that'swhere it'slistedout those and the way I
read itthat the landfillwould be covered under that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo, Mr. Penniman. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else? ifnot,we'lltalkto you again later.Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifierisByron Brown, to be followed by Bob Adams.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 29
MR. BYRON BROWN (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Good morning, Council Chair. How are you? Thank you so much, Council forhaving
us. This isin regards to 22-151 and 22-56. I'm a Makawao resident,Upcountry and
thiswas brought to our attentionatthe Haiku Community Center the otherevening with
Councilmember Sinenci.
And it'samazing, because thisvote justso everyone knows, and Iknow you are aware
ofthis,justgetsus totheJuly15'^vote.This isjusta vote fora vote. We are asking
forsuretogetus throughthisone tothe 15‘^.Ithinka lotof our Council need to know
that you represent us. Upcountry, Mrs. Lei,you represent Upcountry. And the Kula
Community Association,that represents our farmers and our ranchers want this,and
we want a water association in place.
The idea that our water could be in the hands of a foreignentityfor50 years, we will
allbe dead. Keep thatinmind, look around. Our childrenwillstillbe alive,finallyone
day saying,they voted thisand they could have had itinthe County. We could have
been incontrol.But they had itforthisentiretime.
Because ifwe remember in 2019, you're allaware that Mike Molina [sic],our Mayor
got a letterfrom Kai Kahele, thatletterexplained how he had the opportunitybecause
the one-year leases were coming to an end and they were going to allowfor30 to 50
year leases on water. This isalltrue. Mike Molina [sic]did not make thisclear.I'm
sorry.I'm using the wrong word. Mike Victorino.Itlanded on hisdesk. Iapologize
Mike Molina. Iapologize sir.Mayor Victorinodid not make thisletteravailableto any
of us. He did not make the community aware that he got thisletter.In fact,he has
never advocated fora community to get water back intothe community's hands and
have a water authority.Infact,he paraded Mahi Pono around tothe othercommunity
centers to show them off.
I am asking thatwe pass thistoday, to get us at leasttoJuly15*^,because that'sall
thisis.Thisjustgets us to July15"^.And 1appreciateso much the informationthat
came forward. Some of you are not aware thatthisin the hands of the County can
also make three milliondollarsfor the County in fees and costs. Itwillnot,ifwe sell
the water to Mahi Pono and to our community at the rates it'sat with minor upgrades,
itisa profit,profitablebusiness to have inthe County. Itisnot a lossas some of our
Councilmembers have said itwillcost our community. Itwillcost our community ifwe
give these rightsaway to a foreigncorporation.And thatlong? Imagine the detriment
to our children?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 30
And so, !want to thank the Council forhearing me. Please get us throughtothe 15^^,
so we can look at thismore and Iask our Upcountry Council to represent us Upcountry
residentsas we elected you to be that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much fortestifyingtoday.
Do you have a copy of thatletter?
MR. BROWN: Ido.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: That was never shared from Congressman Kahele.
MR. BROWN: Sure. Ido.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Could you share itwith us? Idon'tmean foryou to read it.
Imean, could you share with the Council?
MR. BROWN: Sure. You don't have it? Most have it. I can send you a copy, ifyou need a
copy. Ihave it.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'llhave staff send it.
MR. BROWN: Okay, but IbelieveKellyyou have itas well.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, in other words, Shane Sinenci has it?
MR. BROWN: Shane for sure has it.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Itwas included in the Board of Water Supply TIG report.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yep.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 31
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Any more questions,Members?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. BROWN; Thank you very much.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifieris Bob Adams, to be followed by Kimberly Brown.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Adams. Scott Adams. Okay.
MR. BOB ADAMS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47);
Hello.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, maybe there isa Robert Adams.
MR. ADAMS; There is a Robert Adams. Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Alright.Mr. Adams, please proceed.
MR. ADAMS; Ispoke up a week ago, and some questions have been put back to me that I
I'd like to comment.
There are issues that,concerning the,the safety of some of these lights,enough light
for safe workplaces. I'dliketo point out that on the Big Island,the harbor has had
these lightsup now forten years. Obviously,they run 24/7,so the brightnessat night
is a criticalfactorfor loading,unloading, reading manifests,and these lightsprovide
more than adequate lightfordoing that.
We've installedlightson temporary standards where you have local,a localgenerator
forpeople to use at a worksite. So, Ithinkthe concerns about,isthisbrightenough?
I think those are well-answered. I think the confusion comes when people are looking
at some of the standard white LEDS. The glare isso brighton them thatyou thinkit's
brighter.But ifyou actuallymeasure the lighton the ground, we put the same amount
of lighton the ground, we justdon'thave the discomfortwith the lights.
So, and we've mentioned before, how many of you have driven down the road and the
halogen lightsshine from the other car and your reactionisoh my god, get them off
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 32
the road? Well, it'sthatsame glarethatgives thatbrightappearance. So, Ithinkthat
thisissue of concern forintensityissomething that iswell-handled.
When I testifiedthe last time, I commented about a lightbulb,
information,Ithink Councilmember King, she's seen itor has the lightbulb. But you
could put up, it’san A-19, which isthe universal,thank you ma'am. That lightscrews
intoany fixtureinmost homes thatyou have anywhere inthe country.Amazon, there
were others on Amazon. So, you could pickyour choice.
I supplied some
The one otherthingthatImentioned the lasttime,thatIstillfeelisa reallyimportant
factoriswhen you startlookingat how these lightsare supplied.Ifirmlybelieveyou
need to have an approved listso thatthe localpeople and the localvendors are not
responsibleforseeing thatitmeets an ordinance. I believeit'sincumbent upon the
people who supply these lightsto provide a testreport. And Councilmember King,
she's seen some of the reports.
That reportidentifiesfamiliesof products thatpass the ordinance,willmeet the spec.
And now contact,infact,the Big IslandPublicWorks Department, you can go online,
and they have a listof approved lightsthatyou can use. Whether it'satthe harbor,or
whether it'satyour backyard. So, Ithinkthatwould reallyhelppeoplefeelbetterabout
it.
So again,Iappreciateyour time. I,people feelfreeto contactme. As I'vesaid,1got
20,000 lightsup on the Big Islandand we've been thereforten years. Ithinkwe have
a good feelforitand I'vebeen working withJay forthe lastfiveyears,pushingtheidea
of how we could make these night lightsfriendlierto the environment,the birds,and
people. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. As Itriedto get earlier,Ithinkyou came and
testified,but what isthe name of your company, sir?
MR. ADAMS: C&W Energy Solutions.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And you'reon the Big Island,you said?
MR. ADAMS: Ihave lightson the Big Island.Imanufacture the lightsinArizona.I'ma U.S.
made lightingsupplier.1don'timportfrom China.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 33
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay. So, you'rethe Arizona company that'ssellingto the
Big Island?
MR. ADAMS: Yes. That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And so, ifyou've done 22,000 lightson the Big Island,you
stand to make a lotof money, ifthisbillpasses. So, you'readvocating forit?
MR. ADAMS: There are other people that sellthe same type of lights,itwillbe competitive
bids. Ithinkthe free market always wins at the end of the day. And I'mnot one that
supplies lightswith the Amazon type. Mine are really... forroadways, parking lots,
those kind of outdoor lightsthat have to have a lotof output efficiency.So again, it'sa
competitive market.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The Maui bill,as you know, is for residentialand
commercial. So, the business thatyou do forthe Big Islandisprimarilyforcommercial?
MR. ADAMS: I do HOAs. I've done homeowners. I've done the county, airports,shopping
centers.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Commercial.
MR. ADAMS: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: HOAs, commercial and probably theirpublicplaces. But
thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. Next testifier.Just
to leteverybody know we'lltake our firstbreak at 10:30.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierKimberly Brown, to be followed by Nathan Strubhar.
MS. KIMBERLY BROWN (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MS, BROWN: Again, Iwant to thank Shane. Again, we stumbled upon thisinformationat
the,oh and I'mtestifyingon behalfof 22-56 and 151.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 34
CHAIR LEE; And your name again,please?
MS. BROWN; Kimberly Brown.
CHAIR LEE; Kimberly Brown. Thank you.
MS. BROWN; And I'mrepresentingthe people of Maui and especiallyUpcountry. Ididwatch
your June 15^^testimony,discussionvote forthis.And so, I know where you guys
stand, but I’masking you to give the people theirvoice and be able tovote on this.So,
we allhave a voice inthis.And Ithank you so much, Shane, for bringingthisto our
attention. Again, we happened to have stumbled upon it,and itwas such a great
informativemeeting. Ithinkeveryone needs to hear it.But Ijustreally,reallythank
you and I want to champion you as a member of the community representing us
accurately. Ijustreallyvalue that.
So, I am in support, I'm asking allof you to vote yes today to give the people the
opportunityto vote on the General Election,I believe. Yes. November. Awesome.
And then,wellJuly15^^first.So, thankyou guys. Iappreciateit.Any questions?
CHAIR LEE; Anyone with questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Ms. Brown for your
testimony.
MS. BROWN; Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha. Sorry. Same question Iasked Mr. Bell.There
are two proposals and Iunderstand that,thatmeeting was yesterday.
MS. BROWN No, itwas Wednesday.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, you justrecentlylearned about it.
MS. BROWN; Correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So, there are two proposals that are on the agenda
and you watched the June 15'^meeting to understand what we were tryingto do so
that there are two options.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 35
MS. BROWN; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: There's one proposal which isthe CR 22-56, that is
the East Maui Community Water Authority.
MS. BROWN: Correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And then there'sCounty Communication 22-151.
MS. BROWN: Yes.
Which is the Maui County Community WaterVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Authorityand an East Maui Community Regional Board.
MS. BROWN; Correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Did you get an opportunityto read thatone as well?
MS. BROWN: Not fully.I'veseen iton here, but not fullythrough. But the way itwas
explained, Iunderstand.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. And which one do you support?
MS. BROWN; I,the water authority.
CR 22-56, which is the East Maui CommunityVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Authorityalone?
MS. BROWN: Both.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Or the Maui County Community Water Authorityand
East Maui Community Regional Board?
MS. BROWN: For the people to have, the County to have the controlover it,so thatwe would
have authority.Idon'twant a privateentity,a foreignentity;itneeds to come back to
the people. We've been waitinghundreds of years. So.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Brown. Mahalo, Chair.
MS. BROWN: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 36
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifieris Nathan Strubhar, to be followed by Christopher
Fishkin.
MR. NATHAN STRUBHAR (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-56):
Hi. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
MR. STRUBHAR; I'm amazed thatyou pronounced my lastname correctly.So, thank you.
Irepresent myself,my wife,and my two kids here, Paige and Carter. Sorry,I'ma little
nervous ...interesting.I'venever, I’vebeen a Maui residentforalmost 14 years, and
after the lastfew years of what's happened in our world, I've never reallybeen
concerned with how things are managed, and how things work in our County and on
our island. But I am startingto realizethat itis a huge deal. It'sa reallybig deal,
especiallyfor my kids,and the next generation coming afterthem.
And so, for,I'm talkingabout CR 22-56, with the water. I'm actually,personallygood
friends with about five differentfarmers that are part of the Hawaii Farmers Union
United, and I'vehad the opportunityto work with them doing videography forthem and
learningabout theirpracticesinfarming forour island.And ifyou want to change our
island,talk to those guys, they're the ones that can solve the problems. I'vehad
multiplemeetings about the Central Maui dust bowls, we allliketo callit.Isat down
and chatted with them and it'sbeen incredible to hear how simple theirsolutionsare to
fixthat and to be able to be, to have our entire island sustainable with food in a matter
of maybe, justa few years?
And so, the factthatwe're importing close to,Ithinkthe statisticswas around 90% of
our food? I may be wrong. To be able to grow allof that here would be incredible.
And so that would, Ijustwant to create a betterfuturefor our kids,for myself,forall
the people that are represented here. And so, please, please, please get to vote yes,
so that we can vote on itas people. You represent us. We really,really,reallyneed
to have thisin our hands, justfrom, justfrom the pure idea of being able to grow our
own food and have control over that. That would be absolutely huge.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 37
And I'm honestly,honestly confused as to why our Mayor would want to partner with a
foreign entity,a foreign corporation over representing our people here? I don't
understand his slogan when he says he has a heart forthe people of Maui and then
would go off and do something likethat? That doesn't align with his motives, his
slogan. That makes no sense. And so, as a member of this,of Maui, I'mjustappalled
that that would, that thiscould be possible to not have control over our water. So,
please vote yes. Thank you so much foryour time. Much appreciated.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions.
Thank you very much. Who got a question, you do?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. Just kind of quickly. Thank you very much for
testifying.You're a videographer? Right? You were saying. So, thank you forthat
specialtyand Ijustwondered with your passion about growing your own foods. So,
are you also a farmer?
MR. STRUBHAR: Iwish. Well, these kiddos are actuallylearning a lotabout that with as
much as we can do. We livein Waikapu, and we have, we turned our, we actually,
sorry kids,we took out their,theirabove-ground pool and we put ingardens. Luckily,
they were onboard with that and we've been able to grow a lotof our food in our
backyard as much as we can and on the sides of our houses with garden beds. And
so, yeah, that’sas much gardening as we're able to do.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. That's very good. So, so thank you. Chair,and I
guess when we go intothisitem,then we can clarifysome ofthe informationthatwe're
hearing,thattestifiersare saying. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? Ifnot,thank you. We'lltake one more. Go
ahead. Thank you very much.
MR. STRUBHAR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; We'll take one more testifierbefore our recess.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Christopher Fishkin. And when we resume afterthe
morning break, Sheila Walker willbe up fortestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Who is?
COUNTY CLERK: Sheila Walker.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 38
CHAIR LEE: Sheila Walker, okay.
COUNTY CLERK; But rightnow, Christopher Fishkin.
MR. CHRISTOPHER FISHKIN (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-47, 22-56 & 22-57:
and County Communication No. 22-154):
Good morning, Councilmembers. I'mtestifyingon the,the lastitem,50, 22-56 and also
on the,the water, sorrythe birdbill,the lightingbilland, and the planningcommission.
So, startingwith the lastone, Iwant to support the lasttestifier,Byron Brown. Very,
very firmly,Iused to be an Upcountry residentformany, many years inMakawao and
inKula. Ido believethatthe Councilmemberthat represents thatarea has an obligation
to represent the people inthat,in thatarea. And the people want controlover their
water. And so, I'm in very strong support and plan to support thatstronglywith both
Byron Brown and the lasttestifierjusttestifiedto on 22-56, to support thatfully.And
unfortunately,taking away rightsand givingthem to developers and corporationshas
been historicallya part of the islands,and likethe lasttestifiersaid,inorder to change
that,we reallydo need to act on that. So ! reallysupport the Councilmembers that
support that.
As faras the Planning Commission, Iwant to support what Dick Mayer said. But Ialso
want to add that I'vebecome very knowledgeable regarding some of the realissues
with Planning,and Ijustwant to bringtothe Council'sattentionthatyou know, it'sreally
important to determine who's going to writethe rulesforthe planningcommission? It
should be you guys. Itshould be the County Councilmembers. Because there's,
regardless of how many commissions there are, ifyou guys don'twritethe rules,the
Planning Directorhas way too much discretionand authorityover what's going on.
Ifyou justread the rulesyourself,you'llsee what Imean. It'san inordinateamount of
power for an unelected officialto have. So, I would just encourage the
Councilmembers while they're deciding about the planning commissions and the
structure,to please somehow find a way to determine that it'sgoing to be the Maui
County Council thatactuallygets towritethose rules,otherwisewe're going to stillhave
the same unlayingproblems, many ofthem thatwe have now.
And then regarding the lighting.You know, Ibelieve thatthisbillshould be passed as
itstands now. Ithink itresponsiblyaddresses ailthe concerns of Hawaiian Electric,
about the availabilityof fixtures. And as far as Jordan Molina's comment that was
published as supported by Councilmember Sugimura justin thishearing,you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 39
we should be growing our own food, but we don'tgrow our own lightbulb. They’re all
outsourced. There're no lightbulbs produced on the islands,thatI'maware of. And if
you go to Amazon.com, which ishow many people do a lotof theirshopping, you can,
you'llsee thatthere'sa ton of lightbulbs and companies that actuallyprovide that,the
lightbulbs thatactuallyare inaccord with the,with the bill's,you know, restrictions.
And I'msure,you know, Jordan Molina said,ifyou go intoan Ace Hardware or a Home
Depot, you won't finda bulb likethat. You know, ifyou pass the bill,they willbring in
those bulbs, number one; and number two, you can get them, you can get them
everywhere. So, Ijustwant to say that I reallybelieve thatthisbillhow responsibly
addresses the concerns that were raised.
And, you know, there was a paper writtenin 2017, Conservation Biology,that the
seabird mortalityinduced by land-based artificiallights,you know, the,they reviewed
the impacts across the globe. Itimpacts at least56 species,46% of which are listed
as vulnerableendangered or criticallyendangered.
Hawaiian birdshave a high number of reportedevents offledglings,which are attracted
to the lightand end up dying through a process calledfallout.It'sreallyimportant.This
isa global phenomenon now, and Maui reallyshould take the lead and pass thisbill.
Similarthings are being done in islands,PacificIslands,and in the North Sea, and
even inplaces likeMinnesota. So, Ireallysupport the passage ofthe billas it'swritten.
And thank you Councilmembers. Ifinally,Ididn'tget to say this,because my phone
fellintoa body of water before the lasthearing. But Ijustwant tojustbriefly,ifyou will
allow, I just want to thank Councilmember Tamara Paltinand apologize for any,
anything that Imay have said at the lasthearing thatcast dispersionson her eminent
domain bill.I'minfullsupport. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. No hard feelings. My question isin regards to
when you said thatwe should writethe rulesfor Planning. I,Iwas wondering ifyou
could clarifythat? We writelegislation,which isthe Code, Title19, or we, not always
write it,but willbe the ultimate authorityin passing it. But can you clarifywhat you
said? I'm not sure ifthat'swhat you meant or something else about writingthe rules
for planning?
MR. FISHKIN: Yes. Thank you. Councilmember. What Iwas referringto isthatat some
pointthe planning commission ruleswere taken away from the Maui County Council
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 40
and given to the planning commission to write inconjunction,Iguess with the Planning
Department. And that resulted interrible,you know, inordinateamount of power, you
know, given to the Planning Directorfordiscretionover a lotof those rules.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry to interrupt.Another clarification.I'm not sure ifyou're
referringto the administrativerulesor the SMA rules,but the SMA rulesthat isgiven
to them by the State to have the sole oversight,the planning commission; where we
as the Council don't have oversight of the SMA areas. Are you referringto the SMA
rules?
MR. FISHKIN: Yeah. You know, the, actuallythe Federal zone management act gives the
County the abilityto implement the SMA laws, and the Hawaii State law. And, you
know, so, itused to be, allof that used to be under the Council ismy understandings.
And, and, so when you say itwas given to the planning commissions to do, there were
ruleswrittenthat used to be under the purview of the Council that are now under the
purview of the planning commissions. And, and Ithinkit'sreallyimportantthatthose
rules,which give thatdiscretionarypower to be inthe hands ofthe County Council,the
elected representatives,not in the hands of appointed government officials,likea
planning directorwhich has, you know, a very large influenceover the planning
commissioner, commission that basicallymade up of laypeople. And so unfortunately
the people that are not experts,that don't have the power to investigatedon'tget to
learn about how the process works and you end up having a Planning Director,you
know, basicallycallingthe shots over the planning commissions.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you forthatclarification.Idon'tbelieveitwas thisbody,
or a previous body that gave that away. Itwas not our decision,but thank you for
clarifying.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Fishkin.
MR. FISHKIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, it'stime for our morning recess. This meeting willbe inrecess until
10:50.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:37 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 11:02 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council Meeting of July 1,2022 please reconvene.
Madam Clerk,may we have the next testifier,please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 41
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifierisSheila Walker, to be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. SHEILA WALKER (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Aloha. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Councilmembers. iappreciatethe opportunity
to be here today. I'm Sheila Walker. I'm here representing myself. And I'm here to
support both CR 56 and 151.
I would look forward to having the people vote on our water rightsas opposed to
corporations making those decisions. And I would also support the people,
commission forthe East Maui, East Maui water. And Iwould be insupport also of that
being an electedboard forthatcommission. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Thank you. Members, do we have questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And mahalo, Ms. Walker foryour testimony
thismorning. Justto clarify,both ofthem would establishan East Maui Board.
MS. WALKER: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And then 22-56 would justbe expanding itcountywide,ifother
regions would want to pursue the same path.
MS. WALKER: Thank you. Thank you forclarifying.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any more questions? Thank you.
MS. WALKER: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Okay Members, I justwant to remind you, I know there'sthe
tendency to clarifyinformation you want to give to the testifieras opposed to
clarificationfrom the testifier.So, let’stry,you know, even though they'regivingwrong
informationthat's,you know, we can'tcorrecteverybody. Okay, thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Mike Moran, to be followed by David Henkin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 42
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (testifying on County
Communication Nos. 22-151 & 22-164 and Committee Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55,
22-57 & 22-58):
Good morning, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Mike Moran forthe Kihei Community
Association. And we want to commend thisbody forthe outstanding work you have
continued to do in so many, so many facets. So, we are among the many, many
testifierstoday, so I think you guys are going to need a three-day weekend to
recuperate from thismeeting.
So, we're going to startwith 22-151, KCA is intotalsupport of it.Some of you may
recallthat when 56 came up, I did mention that I personally and many individualsin
our community were in support of the association,because of our by-laws we were
restricted.We didn'tfeelitapplied to our district.So, we are very pleased that,not
that this was the reason itwas done. Member Sinenci has 22-151, which has expanded
the coverage of itand being partof itaddresses, you know, the restof us so thatwe
can fullysupport 22-151 forthe reasons thathave been statedby many where they are
talkingabout the older one or the newer one. So we're intotalsupport of that.
Moving on to 22-55, the climate change adaption /s/c7totalsupport. And you know, we
allsee how othergovernment entitiesare going inthe oppositedirection,devastatingly
seem to have finallyagreed thisissomething real.Climate change issomething real.
But they'restilltryingto inhibitit,where thisCouncil issteppingforward,and going in
the rightdirection.So. we are intotalsupport of that one too.
Number three,22-58, lookingatthatland at Keawakapu. We understand the concept,
and we justwant to remind everyone thatwhen we're lookingat the overallsituation,
gettingland thatisprobably going to turn intoa parking lot,we have to do thisjudicially.
Of course, number one, ifit'sgoing to be a parking lot,don'tpave it.You know, we
don'tneed any more paving,particularlynear the shoreline.And so,ifit'sgoing to be
a parking lot,at least,something likegravel or something.
But also,the concept of every time we put in a parking lot,we bringinmore vehicles.
Some willbe inhibited,let'snot go drive down there, can'tfinda place to park. Oh,
now there'sa parking lot,let'sgo. So, allthose negative aspects of it,more cars on
the road, more traffic.So, we have to judiciouslylook at this and say are there
alternativesto puttingin more parking lotsfor motor vehicles? And we know, we've
talkedabout them foryears,walking,you know, bicyclepaths,mass transit,or at least
carpooling,so everybody isn'tgoing down inindividualcars. So, we justbringthatinto
the discussion, not saying that we shouldn't do this,get thatland,but be cautiouson
how we proceed with it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 43
Our next one is 22-57, and we have long supported getting individualplanning
commissions for individual districts. And we did submit written testimony on this one
because there had been many discussions in prior meetings about the attitudeof
advisory boards and we included a testimony from January of, Idon't have the date
here, a few years ago, Ithinkitwas 20, from a long-term,a triplemember of the Hana
Advisory that was advising us. He sent us an individualmessage to South Maui and
to mister, urn, I have to get the rightMike here, we don’t want any more mistakes.
Forget about getting these advisory boards, because you'lladvise the planning
commission, and they justdisregardwhat you say. And he sent thatin as testimony,
that was John Blumer-Buell, and he did contact us.
So, now we see how thisisproceeding two-and-a-halfyears later,sincethathappened.
We have our firstSouth Maui Advisory Committee has been scheduled forthismonth.
So thattook two-and-a-haifyears to get thisstarted,and we're hoping thatthiswilldo
what we thought itmight do isthen force to the next step of gettingactual planning
commissions for the individual districts,such as ours. We fee!that we, we can speak
better,and I have mentioned before challenges we had as a community association
testifyingto planning commission. Not the same as an officialboard, but you know,
with some similaritieswhere our testimony was justdiscounted and not because we
were asking to violaterulesor laws,justbecause of attitudeand lackof knowledge of
an area. So, we stand insupport ofthisto get iton the,on the ballot,and letthe public
decide on that one.
And our next one is22-164, Idon'tthinkanybody else has spoken to thisand that's
that senior affordable housing project in, in South Kihei that now is running intoa
potentialtime limit.And we allknow that,that has happened so many times before
where, you know, everythingisdone, they get allthe approvals,and then they don'tgo
ahead and build.And thisissomething thatwe certainlyneed, more affordablerentals
and . . . particularlyforseniors,but we feelthisistakingthe rightaction. You can’t
stretchthison forever. Ifyou’re ready to go, and they saidthey were ready to go, they
toldour associationthat,years ago. They toldevery, every government board, ready
to go, so we hope they will,but we understand the need to put a time limiton them. If
you're,ifyou'renot going to proceed, you're not going to lead,you know, get out ofthe
way.
And the last item is 22-47. And we are in totalsupport of this. We’ve heard the
discussions,and again, thisbrings back that expression that the Vice-Chair used on
another matter, and also educating me on the originof it,thatjusticedelayed isjustice
denied. And we can'tkeep pushing thisdown the road, and tellingthese endangered
species, wait a littlebitlonger untilwe can get thisrightbulb,righthere,rightnow. Let's
proceed with this.This discussion has been on. You've heard from professionals.The
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 44
technology isavailable.Let'sget thisdone and protectour seabirds, so they can help
protectus. We are partof nature ... so thank you forthe opportunityto give our input
on allthose items today. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: And mahalo forallofyour work. Members, questions? No, questions.
Thank you very much, Mike.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou. ...long weekend.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris David Henkin, to be followed by EricMiyasato.
MR. DAVID HENKIN. EARTHJUSTICE (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-47):
Aloha and ... David Henkin, an attorneywith Earthjustice.Iam a registeredlobbyist.
I submitted writtentestimony from Conservation Council for Hawaii and Center for
BiologicalDiversity,and together with Earthjustice,we've been advocating for many
years to protectour,our nativeseabirds.
And so, testifyinginstrong support of Bill21, which came out ofthe CARE Committee.
And you know, as many have discussed, we are not breaking new ground here. On
Hawaii Island,they have been using these lights.The lightsexist. They don'tpose
any problems forpublicsafety. You know, itcan be done, ithas been done. And one
of the great innovationsthat came out of the CARE Committee's long deliberations
about the bill,they did massage the bill,they made amendments to the bill.And one
of the thingswas to adopt an amend, adopt a definitionof the "blue lightcontent,"that
would be identical to the one in the Hawaii Island ordinance. And so, there wouldn't
be, you know, now there would be a uniform standard across two counties and
hopefullythroughout the State eventuallyto protectour nativeseabirds.
So, we urge the fullCouncil to pass thison firstreading,second reading and let'sget
iton the books. From the earlier conversation, we understand there's a proposed
amendment to slightlydelay the effectivedate so thatsome ofthe projectsthatmaybe
are inprocess now can, can have some additionaltime to adjustunder the three-year
grandfathering.That makes a lotof sense.
Addressing the Police Chiefs concerns about some of the emergency lighting.Ithink
thatmakes a lotof sense. Ialso heard the testimony from, ofthe landfill,and of course,
this,this,thisbillwould not outlaw these portable lightingto make sure thatthere would
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 45
be adequate lightingto protectworkers of landfill.Itwould just have to be the right
spectrum of lighting,you've heard from experts thatthisissafe lighting.Itcan be done,
ithas been done. It'sbeen going on, on the Big Island.So, we urge that.
And I saw some writtentestimony from the Department of Public Works, raising
concerns about some streetlightsthat they purchased and wanted to install,and that
they would not necessarilycomply with thisrightnow? Ithinkit'sreallyimportantfor
the Council to be aware thatthe Department of Public Works was taken to court and
found to have violatedthe Hawaii Environmental PolicyAct by doing no environmental
review before spending taxpayer money on those streetlights.Had they done that
environmental review, they would have had the opportunity to get feedback from
experts and hopefullychosen more wisely.
That's the purpose of the law, to make informed decisions and purchase streetlights
likethe ones on the Big Islandthatwould comply with thisordinance. So, Idon'tthink
we should allow the factthatsome ofthese agencies went ahead and violatedthe law,
be a justificationfor them now failingto come to compliance with a commonsense
measure that'snecessary to protectour native birds. So, we stronglysupport thisand
we urge you to pass it.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Thank you. Chair. Thank you for your testimony,
Mr. Henkin. Ijustactuallywanted to ask ifthere are no objections,ifyou would be
availableto be a resource at a latertime today?
MR. HENKIN: Iwould be happy to do that. I have a conflictat 3:00 p.m.,you have a long
agenda, so Iguess italldepends littlebit,ifIcan, Iwould be happy to.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, great. Thank you, yes, it'shard to predictwhat time thatwould be, but
I'm sure Member King'sofficewillbe intouch with you.
MR. HENKIN: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; We'll give you a call. It'sat the end of the agenda, so we'llgive
you a call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 46
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
MR. HENKIN: Thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments or questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Not for him. For you.
CHAIR LEE: Not for him. Okay. Thank you very much.
MR. HENKIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: For your testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair, how many more testifiersdo we have? I'm just
curious.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Over 30. over 35 rightnow.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Wow. Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: I hope you're not catching a plane. Okay, let'ssee. We're going to take our
next,our lunch break at 12:00. So, let'stryand get as many inas possible.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisEric Miyasato, to be followed by Kaatee Bailey.
MR. ERIC MIYASATO (testifying on County Communication No. 22-154 and Committee
Report No. 22-47):
Aloha, Council. My name isEric Miyasato. Iwas born and raisedon Maui, graduated
from Baldwin. I currentlyliveon Oahu. I represent myself. Currently,I'm in COVID
protocolquarantine,1caught itata lightingconference lastweek, but Iwanted totestify.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 47
Isubmitted tothe County Clerktwo documents. One isthe Chapter 14 ofthe Big Island
lightingordinance. Inthatdocument, Ispecificallygo over the exemptions thatthe Big
Islandlightingordinance has. One isforprivateresidences,which are fullyshielded,
or have a totallumen output less than 8,100 lumens per acre. The other exemption is
foroutdoor advertisingsigns,and itfallsunder Class one. Inthe Big Islandordinance
Class one means outdoor lightingused for,but not limitedto,outdoor sales,eating
areas, assembly or repairareas, advertisingand buildingsigns,recreationalfacilities,
and other similarapplicationsinwhich colorrenditionisimportant.
The lastexemption 1would liketo talkabout isinthe Big Islandordinance they have
Section 14-53,which exempts allexistingfixtures,under theirordinance untilthe fixture
becomes inoperable. I'mkeeping itshortbecause ofthe COVID. The currentMaui bill
doesn't allow these exemptions. They actuallytook out the exemptions forsafetyand
temporary lightingand a couple other sectionsand rewrote itintotwo subsections.
The other document that 1submitted was a study done and submitted scientificallythis
year in2022. Itwas done by Hawaii PacificUniversityand the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
study. Itwas an 8-year study done from Waimanalo to Hawaii Kai. Itwas comparing
high-pressure sodium, the existingold lightsversus the full-cutoffLED in 3,000 and
4,000K. It'sa fulltechnical report available online and Iwould liketo justtake one
statement out of that document, quote "there's no evidence suggesting that the
shielded LED streetlightsimpacted the number of birdsaffectedby falloutoverall."I
wish the Committee to take a look at that document, and to take a look atthe Big Island
ordinance, and tryto adopt the Maui Bill21, CD, to followthatexamples.
There was mention of buying bulbs on Amazon. Those bulbs ifpurchased would
probably be amber type,which ismonochromatic, they would stillhave to providethe
proper documentation in order to comply with the blue lightcontent. There is very
limitedblue lightcontent bulbs thatare not monochromatic. On the fixtureside,there
are only a few manufacturers thatcan produce thatblue lightcontent,specificforthe
Big Island. The Big Island ishaving a hard time findingfixtures.There are-
CHAIR LEE: Eric. Eric.
MR. MIYASATO; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Could you please conclude your testimony?
MR. MIYASATO: Iconclude my testimony. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 48
CHAIR LEE: You can have a minute, you can have a minute to conclude.
MR. MIYASATO: I'm fine. The COVID isgettingto me. So, I'vebeen waitingthislong to
testify,and ifthere are any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. Ihope you feelbetter.
MR. MIYASATO: Okay. Thank you. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: Bye-bye.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisKaatee Bailey,followed by Vicky Corbett.
MS. KAATEE BAILEY (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Good morning, Council. Good morning, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Hi.
MS. BAILEY: I am honored to be here today to express my voice on behalf of the people
concerning the water rights.Iam a 30-year residentof Maui, and Iam a Maui pastor
forthe last10 years, and Iam here to testifyinfavorof 22-151 and 22-56.
Water authorityisvitaltothe people and tothe land,and itshould never be inthe hands
of a foreigncorporationnor any otherauthorityexcept inthe hands ofwe the people.
Itisa water injusticeto give the water rightsto a foreignentity,and Iam sad to hear
that our Mayor supports givingthe people's water rightsto a foreigncorporation.The
voice of a corporationshould never dominate the voice of we, the people. When God
created the heavens and the earth, he gave the rightsof the water and the land to the
people. And 1am finished.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Chair, our next testifieris Vicky Corbett, to be followed by ToniCOUNTY CLERK:
Easton [sic].
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 49
MS. VICKY CORBETT (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
My name isVicky Corbett and Ithank you very much forlettingme be here. I'mnewly
a resident and I'velivedhere on Maui for about nine years, but I have family that are
Native Hawaiians. And I'm here to encourage allof the Council to vote yes on 22-56
and 22-151.
I'm kind of going to read it,because ihave a lotto say. I'mvery passionate about the
land and food. Eating good food prettymuch has saved my lifebecause of a health
condition. And so, I honor and respect the localfarmers thatgrow healthyfood. And
. . . Hawaiians have successfullyfarmed these islandsfor hundreds of years without
exploitingthe land, they remain tropicalislands. Since corporations have been
controllingthe water inthe islands,the land isno longer a tropicalparadise, but more
reminiscent of Oklahoma inthe thirtiesduring the dust bowl, which you can see the red
dust everywhere, and it'saffectedmy lungs.
Ichallenge allof you to go to any localfarmer, go to theirland,pickup a cup, pickup
a bucket of soil,realsoilthat has a lifein it.And you have thatwith holes inthe bucket.
Then go down to the, down the valley,pick up the dirt,it'snot soilof these corporate
farmers with holes inthe bucket. You pour water inthe Native Hawaiian, who knows
how to grow on the land,...it'srealsoil,itholds the water. You pour the water inthe
bucket of dirtfrom corporate farming,sieves rightthrough.
So my thing is,the thing isconserving water, proper water management, why would
you give control of water to someone who doesn't know how to use it? Their soil
doesn't hold the water. The plantsneed water to grow. The way our nativefarmers,
our local farmers farm the land, they understand that. They know the soil,so they
produce, they,they feed the soil.They produce, the soilisa product itself.It'snot to
be exploited.They don'thave to use chemical fertilizersforthe food to grow because
the soilfeeds the plant. Commercial farming doesn't have any nutrientsintheirdirt.
So, that's.I'mvery passionate about the exploitingofthe water. And, and many studies
have been done that monoculture, and the way they do thiscorporate farming uses
much more water then the way our localfarmers farm the land. So that'swhy Isay this
isabout water security,about water conservation,so Ipray thatyou vote thatthe water
is turned back to people of Maui. To me, it'simmoral for our localgovernment to
continue allowingcorporations,especiallyforeigncorporationsto not only exploitthe
Hawaiian's water, but theirland.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 50
When Pono firstcame, pono's a beautifulword. Ihave nephews thatare part-Hawaiian
and when Itold my sisterabout the corporations taking over, she said they have no
rightto use the name "Pono." Because I'veresearched the corporation. They have
been doing a lotof farming throughout the world. In Southern Californiathey have
almond groves and do your research? How isthe water in centralCalifornia? What
has happened to the farms there, because so much water is being used for the
monoculture thing.
So, it'swater conservation, it'sthe future of the island. And my point is this,the
corporations are inthe business of making money. They're growing a few crops that
cannot feed the Hawaiian people. This island for hundreds of years fed theirpeople
with nobody shipping food here. They can do itagain. They can grow allthe food
that'sneeded forallthe people. I'm blessed. I liveUpcountry. Igo to the farmers'
market. I'm privilegedto eat realfood that'snutritious.
There was Dr. Bush thatdid a research projectof Oahu. Hawaiian children,many that
were pre-diabetic,because they were justeating grocery store food that was void of
nutrients.They're pre-diabetic,they were ovenA/eight.For one year, they grew their
food organicallyat theirschool. They tostweight; they're no longer pre-diabetic
because what we need for our health is in our food and commercially grown food the
way they grow it,it'snot nutritiousfor ourselves,for our children,and itexploitsthe
land. Itdepletes the soil,Imean seriouslywhen you, when I,every time Icome down
country,Isee the red dust inthe air.And it'sreminiscent,it's,Igo, what, they'returning
a tropicalparadise intothe dust bowl.
And it'sbecause they don'tknow the island.The Hawaiian people, thisistheirhome,
they respect it. They farm out of love, not only for the land based on how their
ancestors farmed the land, but for the future of their children. And so, I'm a mom. I'm
a grandma. I'mvery passionate about itand Itruly,trulypray thatthe vote isinfavor
of the Hawaiian people. Because it'stheirland, it'snot Canada's corporate land.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you and may we have the next
testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisToni Easton [sic],to be followed by Scott Adam.
(testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-151 & 22-155 andMS. TONI EATON
Committee Report No. 22-56):
Aloha. Can you hear me? Aloha. Can you hear me?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 51
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. EATON: Okay, my name isToni Eaton, and I'm on the Board of Water Supply, but I'm
here to testifyon my own behalf. So at the June 15 meeting, I was listeningto you
guys' meeting and I was so disappointed. There was so much misrepresentation,
misconceptions about the,the East Maui Water Authority.I'mgoing totalkabout three,
22-56, 22-151 and 22-155.
But you know, about the East Maui Water Authority,some ofthe Councilmembers were
under the impression thatwe had to buy the whole system. We don't have to buy the
whole system. The system on the State licensearea isalready with the State. That's
theirproperty. Itsays itfrom the 1800s. Itsays itinthe last1973 MOU with the,with
the Board of Water Supply, Maui County Board of Water Supply. So, you know, that,
you guys gotta get that out of your heads. Itsounds likeyou're more interestedin
protectingthe foreignentitiesthan you are protectingthe people of Maui.
...another misrepresentation isthat,you know, some of you said thatyou heard from
your constituents. I don't know what constituents you're listeningto, because
everybody that I'veheard testifyis in favor. The only people not infavor of having a
East Maui Water Authorityisthe County of Maui and theirdepartment heads. So, you
know, this,gettingthismeasure on the ballotisvery important.You guys are hemming
and hawing and, and oh Idon'tknow about this,the cost and everything. But it'snot
about you guys, it'sabout lettingthe people speak.
So, iwant to get intothis,the Upcountry water shortage rightnow. The Upcountry
water, the people of Upcountry they are solelyindependent on surface water coming
from EMI's ditches. Ifthisdoesn't get on the ballot,they'regoing to be in a constant
state of water conservation. On the water meter list,there'scurrently1400 people on
the list.And it'sposted on the Department of Water Supply Engineering site. The
oldest applicantisfrom January 2003 and the lastone on that isfrom December 2012.
So, I don't know how updated itis? Itsays itwas updated in January of 2022, but I
don'tthinkthatthat'spossible.
So, ifwe don't,ifwe don't get thismeasure on the ballot,letthe Maui people vote on
thismeasure, it'sgoing to be detrimental. Don't you find itironicthatthe Upcountry
domestic water users are always asked to conserve water, but it'sone of the wettest
places on Maui? The Upcountry water, people water needs have been put on the back
burner forthe last30 years.
So, another misrepresentation isthat,you know, one of you said you, the kanaka maoli,
they cannot come to these meetings either in person or virtually.Are you speaking of
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 52
the kanaka maoli who have been fightingfortheirseat at the table for generations?
The ones that had faith in their fellow kanaka maoli to do the rightthing and lettheir
voices be heard. The same kanaka maoli that voted for you on that very platform.
Don't you thinkthatthese linealdescendants time to have a say isnow. You know, my
whole purpose, likeI stated before, I'm on the Board of Water Supply, but my whole
purpose ofjoiningthe Board of Water Supply was to see thatour waters get returned
to the streams. That our ohana farming kalo get sufficientwater for the perpetuation
of our cultureand forour people to finallytake controlof our water and take itout of
the hands and pockets of thiscorporationwith the fake name.
So, I mahalo Members Sinenci, Rawlins-Fernandez, Paltin, Molina, and King, for
realizingthatthisisthe time to take controlof our publictrustresources. This isforour
kupuna, our ohana. And fora few Members on thisCouncil to deny them the rightto
finallyget the water they deserve, you're doing a disserviceto the people of Maui. So,
that's for 56.
For the 151, totallysupport that. Also, you know, the, Maui needs to take controlof
theirwater,justlikeOahu, they have the Honolulu Board of Water Supply, you know,
it'sa semi-autonomous agency and Maui can followtheirfootsteps. Our water isso
important and nobody has even done any studies,well nobody inthe County has done
any studies. But now the County issaying that oh, you know, we can work thisout.
144 years these guys had controlof our water. They had 144 years forfigurethisout.
Ifthey not going figure'em out,leave itto the people of Maui. We can figurethisout.
And then the lastthing Iwant to talkto you about is 155. DirectorKau or Deputy
DirectorAgawa willcome over here and reporton the CWRM water use reportsforall
registeredwell reportersinthe County of Maui. What for? We can see that. It'son
CWRM. We can see allof the County water systems inthe divisionreportsthatcome
out every month to the Board of Water Supply. I would be more interestedin the
surface water reporting.Can any of you guys findthe surface water reporting? Even
on CWRM. Icannot findthat. Wouldn't you be more interestedin,infiguringout how
much water is diverted from every stream and know where it'sgoing? Cause that's
what this,thisreport is. But thisis on groundwater, on wellsources. But that'sallI
have to say. Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Scott Adam, to be followed by Jordan Hocker.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 53
MR. SCOTT ADAM (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-56):
Hello, Council. Scott Adam, I'm a Haiku resident and concerned citizen. And as we
know, you know, for a long time the, the, the rallycallacross the country for many,
many cultures has been water islife.And you know, water isan essentialpart of our
existence,and it'sa buildingblock and a human right.And you know, Ireallybelieve
that it'simportant for our elected officialsto really,trulyserve theirconstituentsand
serve the people thatput them intoplace and to have in mind the futuregenerations.
And by givingthe rightsof our water over to a corporation,that'sa foreigncorporation,
that has potentialagendas or potential,Iguess incentivesthat don'tactuallyserve the
people, or the futureof the people. It'ssomething thatwe need to consider incredibly,
like,need to make that a very important part of when we're looking forward about
making these decisions.
And inadditionto that,Ireallyfeelthatwe have taken the rightsaway from the people
to actuallyspeak up. And the level of transparency with the government and the
communication with the people isreallylacking.And I reallycallfor. . .inthe future,
in going forward,to have, when we have essentialdecisions that are going to affect
the future of our communities that itwill be held inthe publictown hallswhere we can
actuallyhear publicdiscussions and decisions and have thiscompletely transparent,
includingthe language withinthe billsthatthe majorityof people can’teven trulygrasp
the, the manipulation that happens through legalese through these bills.And this
needs to become completely transparent through real language and, and fullyaired
publicly,so that we can, and the people on alllevelscan airtheirunderstandings of
what these billstrulyare puttingforward as we, as we move forward to make decisions
about our futuregenerations.
So, that'sreallyallIwant to say. Iwant to say that we need to bring the power of the
water back to the people, and secure that for future generations. And so thank you,
Shane, for putting,doing allthe work that you did on thisbilland I hope thatwe really
analyze that,the language inthere to make sure that we are trulyserving the people
with this,with thisbill.Thank you. Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions? Thank you.
MR. ADAM: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: No questions.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Jordan Hocker, to be followed by Blaine Banks.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 54
MS. JORDAN HOCKER (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-151. 22-154. &
22-155: Committee Report Nos. 22-47. 22-55. 22-56 & 22-59: and Resolution
Nos. 22-162. 22-166, & 22-168):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Man, you have quitethe agenda infrontyou and Ihave quite
a few to testifyon. So, I'lltryto.I'lltryto keep itbrief.
So, iwould liketo testifymy support of allowing,you know, measure 22-151 onto the
ballotas a Charter amendment. I think that maybe the hesitancy on behalf of the
department and some ofthe entitieswho are not insupportofa Maui Community Water
Authorityand an Advisory Board from East Maui, is probablydue to ailof the voices
thatwe've heard today,which are very stronglyinfavorofthatwater being managed,
and actuallyconsidered forthe publicinsteadof as we've heard,a privatecorporation.
So Ithinkthatregardlessofwhere, you know, anyone sittingon thisbody, where your
loyaltieslie,the realityisthatthe people are asking you to letus vote on that,inthe
upcoming Charteramendments. So, you know hearingthe Mayor'sAdministrationsay
wellthere'sjusttoo much going on. Ithinkthatwe allknow thatwater ismost important
and as a Upcountry residentwho iscurrentlyon restriction,thatI'vegot a lotoffood
growing around me, you know we allfeelthe burden ofwater mismanagement. And
I'm not in any place that I'm worried about an East Maui Water Authoritysomehow
taking away my water Upcountry because we are dependent completelyUpcountry on
the EMI system. And so 1want to thank Councilmember Shane Sinenciforbringing
thatforward and urge you foldsto simply vote yes so thatwe can vote on itcoming up.
I'llmove on Bill21, CC 22-154, or CC 47 [sic],in regards to seabird lighting.We've
heard a lotof reallygood testimony. I think that thisbody ismore than capable of
hearing where exemptions are needed. But yeah, Ithinkinthe same way withwater
gets overlooked,our biodiversityand our endemic species getoverlookedas well.And
ifno one'sgoing tostepforward,then thatiswhat thisbody shouldbe doing,preserving
the health of certainspecies and our biodiversitygoing forward,so thatour children
can experience what, what that'slike.Biodiversitymakes Maui County a betterplace
to be. Itmakes ithealthier.So that'swhy Isupport thisinitiative.
I'llmove onto CC 22-55 [sic],in regards to,you know, the County exploringtelework
options. Itdoes seem likea no-brainer.You know, our transportationinfrastructureis
so heavilybombarded by, you know, our visitortraffic,as wellas our residenttraffic.
And so we're in a situationthat ifpeople can work from home you are mitigatingour
use of fossilfuels. You're allowing people a littlemore freedom, and possiblyan
alternativeinthe case that,you know, COVID isstillhere. People are stillgettingsick.
I’mgettingover a chest cold over here and so having alternativemethods ofbeingable
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 55
to work and being able to access and stillshow up within Maui County isexceptionally
important especiallyconsidering how, at leaston my end, it'sbeen a loteasier to even
participatein localgovernment because there are these, these options, these . . .
options.
So, I'llmove into Bill92, which is scheduled for it'sfirstreading regarding residency
requirements for commissions. I did speak on thisat Committee, and Istillsupport it,
I stillthink that if,you know, Iwas made aware of an exemption for people who are
moving or other things,and Ithinkthat,Ithinka residency requirement forcommissions
isnot too much to ask. So, Iam insupport of thisand hope thatyou folkswillvote yes
on thistoday.
I'llmove to Resolution 22-162 regarding the purchasing of the Lahaina Crossroads
building. We've heard a lotabout corporations,we've heard a lotabout entitiesthat
are sort of undermining the way that we're living.And the evictionof an entiregroup
of people from one buildingwho have been there forever,puts us in a reallyunique
situation.Because thishas been happening to individualsin single ohanas or in one
locationallthroughout the pandemic. You know, people have been pushed out.
People had theirrentsdoubled. This isa trend and that'sundeniable.
So, when you'relookingatthe purchasing ofan entirebuilding,what makes thisunique
isthatthe residentsactuallywere able to come together and say thisisn'tfair.And it
was multiplevoices that were able to be amplified instead of one singlefamily being
pushed out by raisingrentsor an individual.And so, Ithinkinpurchasing thisbuilding
itis a proper use of you know, at leastwhat I feel my taxpayer resources to keep
kupuna housed and to, to set a precedent that Maui County iswillingto step in on
behalf of our most vulnerable residentsto,to fightthistrend.
Because the market isbooming, and the people who have the money to investhere in
our buildingsaren'treally,Ithink,ina more ... positionthatthey'rethinkingabout how
thatisaffectingour families,theirchildren,and our kupuna. And itbegs, when we talk
about how importantour kupuna is,are,thathow much isthatlipservice? Likewhere
isthe followthrough? And so, Ithink that the County acquiringthisbuildingisa step
inthe rightdirectionat the very leastforthese residents.So, Ihope thatyou'llsupport
that.
And then I'm going to move onto 22-166, regarding the resolutionurging the Police
Department and the Prosecuting Attorney to,or the Prosecutor'sOfficeto work with
DLNR interms of illegalcamping on unencumbered publiclands. So there'stwo things
inthisresolutionthatdon'tbelong together and are not at allinthe same vein. Ifully
support there being enforcement for people who are camping illegallywho come here
on vacation. Not only are they tryingto look forthe cheapest optionever, and ifIcan
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 56
findthe study,the realityiswe have more visitorsthan ever, but due to inflation,they
are spending about the same amount of money as in the 1980‘s; right? So we have
thisunfetteredsituationthat'sgoing on that absolutely needs to be addressed.
However, folkscoming here and choosing to rent a camper van isnot the same thing
as unhoused kanaka having to camp, set-up a fishingpole,or do whatever. And the
realityisthat a resolutionlikethis,who do you think isgoing to be most affectedin
terms of criminalizationby both the Police Department and the Prosecutor'sOffice?
Who do you thinkthey'regoing to go after;right? Because the realityrightnow isin
the State of Hawaii itisillegalto sleep inyour car between the hours of like6:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., and ifI'm wrong on that,I do apologize. But frequently it'sunhoused
individualswho are harassed by policeforsleeping intheircars. Because we already
know rightnow that ifpeople who are illegallycamping in these camper vans were
being harassed by the police,there would be a heck of a lotlessof itgoing on.
So, Iwould urge you to not adopt thisresolutionas itisby any means to fullypullthe,
the paragraph about unsheltered residents down at Kanaha out of itentirelyand
instead choose the focus to be on this illegalcamping for profitbecause it'sjust
completely separate. And when I read it,my heart sank, because the lastthingwe
need to do is criminalize homelessness further in Maui County.
And then I'llmove onto the lastpart that I have to say which isResolution22-168. !
appreciate thisbeing brought forward in the wake of the Supreme Court overturning
Roe vs. Wade. The realityisit'sa highlycontentious issue and my opinions may not
be the opinions shared by other people withinMaui County. However, ifyou want to
lower the rate of abortion,itisnot through banning it.It'sthrough affordablehousing.
It'sthrough paid maternityleave. It'sthrough a livingwage.
There are ways to encourage people to have the babies thatthey are carrying,butuntil
our maternal mortalityrates against Native Hawaiian women, which are at the same
standard,okay, as black women in the United States. So, you're lookingat women
dying at a rateof 300% more givingbirth.It'snot safe to give birthinour hospitalsright
now, and those inequitieshave not been addressed. And so, ifyou reallycare about
this issue from a data perspective;right? There are things that can be done that
actuallyhave an affectand bans are not one of them. And so, iappreciatethisgoing
forward, I mean appreciate thisbeing brought forward. Because itreallyisa partof
family planning, and itreallyisn'tanyone else'sbusiness. But the realityisthe reason
that Roe vs. Wade had to, have gone allthe way to the Supreme Court isbecause
women were dying and that'sthe bottom line.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 57
So, I'llend there. Thank you so much forallowingme to speak on allof these issues
and it'snice to see you allback inthe chambers forthose ofyou who are there. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you very much.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris Blaine Banks to be followed by Dan Johnson.
MR. BLAINE BANKS. JOHNSON CONTROLS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good morning, and thank you. Council, for this opportunity to speak about the
proposed Bill21, CD1, changes to the Maui County's outdoor lightingordinance.
My name is Blaine Banks, and I am the Hawaii Engineering Manager of Johnson
Controls' Sustainable Infrastructure Division. Johnson Controls has offices on Maui
and Oahu and my company's expertisemight be best summarized as being customer-
driven to deliver exceptional customer experiences and solutionsfor safer,more
comfortable, more efficient,and ultimately more sustainable buildings and
infrastructure.
As it relates to Bill21, which is an ordinance to make significantchanges to the
requirements foroutdoor, inthe specificationsforoutdoor lightinginthe County. First,
Iwould liketo apologize thatwe didn'tcome to the table,come forward soon enough
when thiswas in Committee to provide some industryinputto the billat thattime.
Because we do have experience with the installationof LED streetlightsand other
outdoor lights,specificallyLED streetlightsformultiplegovernment agencies inHawaii,
includingthe City and County of Honolulu, and the State of Hawaii Department of
Transportation.
And we are very aware of the sensitivityof outdoor lightingrelatedto the surrounding
natural environment. And that any specification for outdoor LED lightingwould
consider many items includingcolortemperature, shielding,etc.,inorderto be mindful
of those impacts to the environment.
Further, this,that was going to be repetitive,but there'salso an independent study
published on March 24, 2022, by Hawaii PacificUniversityand the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service which studied seabird fallout around outdoor lightson the highway on
Oahu between Hawaii Kai and Waimanalu for a period of eightyears. With the first
four years being the older high pressure sodium lights,those are the ones with low to
no blue light.The second fouryears being the new shieldedLED streetlightsthathave
some blue light,more than the low pressure sodium, but importantlythey did have a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 58
fullyshielded fullcut-offdesign of the fixtureitself.And I'llreiterate,the one linethat
sticksout inthis,inthisstudy'sconclusion being thatthere'sno evidence suggesting
thatthe shielded LED streetlightsimpacted the number of birdsaffectedby fallout.
So, that being said thank you very much for your time and we appreciate the
opportunityto provide feedback. Because firstand foremost, we want to,we commend
the County intaking steps to lookingat the existingcode, existinglaws, existingbills
and to tweaking and strengtheningthe County's own ordinance to be as responsive as
possible. And further,! want to take this opportunity to say thank you, that we can
provide some inputfrom the industry'sperspective and the experience that myself and
my company have had around thisexact same issue from other Hawaiian islands in
the State. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Banks. Thanks forbeing here. I
was working with your company back inthe 90's to,on performance contractingwhen
Iwas on the Board of Education. So, I know about Johnson Controls has been around
a long time. Have you done any work on the Big island on their replacements?
Because they've been doing thisforten years, and we're using the same standards in
this bill.
MR. BANKS: Yeah, urn, I can'tspeak of directexperience with contractingwork, installing
work on the Big Island. Ican say that my company has, was contracted to do it.We
are aware prettyextensively around some of the originationof the fixturecompliance
and the needs dating back to when the observatories were, you know, Mauna Kea
were very particularabout having lightpollutionand ambient lightinthe,on the island
and in the community filteredout to reduce the blue lightcontent because the
telescopes were not tuned to handle a lotof ambient blue lights.That was during the
time from the transitionfrom the low-pressure sodium, the reallyorange yellow lights-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. No, Ijustwanted to know ifyou had any directexperience
because Iknow you mentioned Honolulu but-
MR. BARNES: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Alright,thank you.
MR. BANKS: Yeah. That's my experience, I'm aware. Yeah, thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 59
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon,Mr. Banks.
I,[was tryingto findyour statement on ifyou were forthe billor against the bill?Can
you clarifythat?
MR. BANKS: Let me, letme clarifyby saying there'smore information,and Ihope some of
these things,likethe independent study from U.S. Fish and Wildlifeand some of the
experience from the neighbor islands and other agencies, publicagencies inthe State
can be considered in helping to shape the finaloutcome, because, you know, my
company isinterestedinbeing incompliance; right?And, you know, as a design,build,
engineering, and constructionfirm,we reallywant to make sure we can, we can deliver.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MR. BANKS: And we want to make sure . . . Thanks.
Let me rephrase my question a littlebit.
JohnsonControls.com, no relation?Do you, do you have the sustainabilitywebsite,or
web page and itsays at Johnson Controls we've been dedicated to protectthe
environment since our invention of the electric thermostat in 1985, which provided
fundamental shiftinenergy-efficiencybuildings.Now allover the world,our products
and services empower customers and communities to consume less energy and
conserve resources. Does thatstatement help, how do you justifyyour stance on this
billwith the statement that you, you guys are making about how you're tryingto
conserve resources and being more, you have a commitment to the environment?
OnCOUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
MR. BANKS: Yeah, you know, everything from the amount of energy thata lightingfixture
consumes, which has to be taken into consideration, the ... Ilook at it,Isuppose. And
calculatingwhat a payback might be or what the operationalcost might be, kindof long
term? Councilmember Johnson, Iguess, ifImay summarize, it'scomplex, sir.A lotof
inputsthatneed to be considered, that'sreallyallI'm saying,sir.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. ... my finalquestion is then to clarify,so is it
financially,isitinyour financialinterestforthisbillto pass?
MR, BANKS: So, Johnson Controls, just to be clear,we're not a manufacturer of lighting
fixture. We do not have a financial interest at all in manufacturers.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 60
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
MR. BANKS: Yeah. So, we don't.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Alright.Thank you so much.
Thank you, Chair. No furtherquestions.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,can Ifollow-up?
CHAIR LEE: We have one more question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you very much foryour testimony.
ifIrecall,so your company as Member Johnson isasking you about, and the work that
you are doing with us forMaui County, ifthisbillpasses, what impact do you see then?
Because you are doing inventory,inventoryforus.
MR. BANKS: Yeah. Yeah. So, rightnow we're undertaking a process of a, of a study of a
physicalsitesurvey of the County buildingsand County facilitiesand infrastructure.
But. .. lightingand other things,lightingbeing one ofthem and we're inthe middle of
that rightnow. And as of next week, we willhave inventory on a line-by-line
spreadsheet forevery singlelightingfixture,interiorand exteriorthatthe County, the
County infrastructure.
The update as of thismorning, our team istellingme thatwe have over 250 different
types of exteriorlightingfixturesidentifiedforCounty assets. So, anything thatwould
be recommended for an installationproject or an energy savings project or an
infrastructureupgrade project,you know, we're very, you know, involved,you need to
be in code compliance. So, you know, we're going to be very attentiveto thingsthat
are happening as thisbilldevelops. That'sa lotof differentfixturetypes to find.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, you need more clarification?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ireallyam, because he's bringingincosts,Ijustwondered
ifhe knows what the cost isgoing to be to the County ifhe'sdoing inventory,so? That
iswhat I'm tryingto get to.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: know, but he gives kind of long answers. So you have to keep-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Do you have a shortanswer forthatquestion, Mr. Banks?
MR. BANKS: The cost?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: How much isitgoing to cost?
MR. BANKS: Idon't have an answer to that rightnow. Idon't have the answer. We're still
doing the analysis. But we will,we could.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, Ithinkyour, your partismore doing the
inventory,not replacements. But Ijustwanted to clarifysomething you said earlieron
that study you were referringto because my informationisthat,that study was only
one species of seabird,and that itactuallydid conclude urging the reduction of blue
light.Can you confirm those two points?
MR. BANKS: Ididn'tparticipate.I’m reading the study as well. I'm not sure about the bird
species. Idon'thave itinfrontof me.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, So, well that was, that was one of the studies that
Mr. Henkin looked at and itwas confirmed there was only one species thatthat study
was covered and thatthe actual study did urge the reductionof blue light.So maybe
check on thatstudy again, Mr. Banks.
MR. BANKS: Yeah. It'spubliclyavailable.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions,Members?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Aloha, Mr. Banks. So, justfollowing
up on the portionsfor you so, are you basicallywithout being directtellingus that
maybe we should hold offon a decision today untilyour study comes out? Isthat
something you would prefer? Imean, at leastfrom the industry'sperspectiveto be in
compliance with whatever isproduced from the Council?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 62
MR. BANKS; We will,you know, anythingthatanyone isproposing; design engineering and
contracting is going to have to get permits or whatever needs to be in compliance;
right? And itwould be, itwould be kind of tough rightnow, you know, that'swhat I'm
saying. So, ifwe could, you know, some of the exemptions that I'm hearing about, you
know, our projectencompasses the publicsafety,the parks and rec,there'sa lotof
differentdepartments, Councilmember. So, um--
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay.
MR. BANKS: --each of them . . . other individual needs.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'm asking, justas an FYI to you, Iwas the originalauthor of
the firstoutdoor lightingbillback 2005 - 2006. We had a subcommittee formed and
so we took our time a littlebit with this to make sure we heard from allsides before we
passed the billout. So, Ipersonallyfeelit'simportantwe hear allperspectivesbefore
we put something out that,you know, isa cost to taxpayers, while at the same time
protects,addresses the environmental needs inour community. So, okay, Iappreciate
your input,Mr. Banks. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? Idon'tsee any. Thank you, Mr. Banks.
Okay, our lasttestifierbefore we take our lunch break. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: That would be Mr. Dan Johnson.
MR. DAN JOHNSON (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-56):
Aloha, Councilmembers and staff.Thank you forthe opportunityto speak on the issue
specifically.I'm here for22-56.
Yeah, Ijustwanted to share one thingon my heartfrom State Legislature.So, we
have a Statute 174C, it'srecognized thatthe waters ofthe Stateare heldforthe benefit
of the citizensof the State. It'sdeclared thatthe people of the State are beneficiaries
and have the rightwhere the waters protected fortheiruse. The State Water Code
shallbe liberallyinterpretedto obtain a maximum beneficialuse of the waters forthe
State purposes such as domestic uses, aquaculture uses, irrigation,agriculture,power
development, commercial, and other industrialuses. However, the adequate provision
shall be made for the protectionof traditionaland customary Hawaiian rights,and
protectionsand procreation offish and wildlife,the maintenance of proper ecological
balance and scenic beauty, and preservation and enhancement of the waters of the
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 63
State municipal uses, publicrecreation.And these things declared to be inthe public
interest.
So that,thatbeing said,on the 22-56 thatwe're lookingat rightnow, Iwould encourage
thatwe continue to move forward with the firstreading,but with the sentiment thatthe
people should always have the rightof the water. However, I think there should be
furtheramendments added to iteventuallyto requirethe County to pursue the lease,
at leastapply for the lease from DLNR so that the County has the headship over the
water rights,and at least the management of those, those benefitscoming especially
for East Maui and Upcountry. I'm an Upcountry residentand I'veseen a lotof the
issues that, that are having with the water distributionand the effectivemanagement
of that.
So, Ithinkthatwe should move forward with a reading on thisand also requirethe,the
Council to apply forthe lease,at a minimum. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? I see none. Thank you very much foryour testimony.
Madam Clerk,how many more testifiersdo we have?
COUNTY CLERK; Thirty-twotestifierssigned up.
CHAIR LEE: So, testifiersifyou could come back afterlunch. Lunch willbe. Members you
want itto be 1:15? 1:15? Any comments? 1:30? 1:30? Sold, okay, alright.
We do have our former Mayor Alan Arakawa inthe audience. Want to acknowledge
him. Thank you forbeing so patient.Iunderstand you have signed up totestify,and
ifyou don'tmind coming back. Are you coming back? Oh, okay, very good. Thank
you. Thank you foryour patience, appreciate it.
Okay, Members at thistime we willtake our lunch break until1:15,meeting. I'msorry
1:30,1:30. Meeting isin recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:08 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:39 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Maui County Council Regular Council Meeting of July 1, 2022, please
reconvene. Itisapproximately 1:39.
Madam Clerk let'sresume testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 64
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris Paul Delauriers, to be followed by Lucienne
de Naie.
CHAIR LEE: Ithinkthey'reonline. Okay, we can always come back to them.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Next would be Mr. BillGreenleaf,to be followed by Robin Knox.
MR. BILL GREENLEAF (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-56 and 22-57):
Hi, I'm here. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Hi, Bill.Yes.
MR. GREENLEAF: Ithinkthe turnout on thistestimony is a creditto thisCouncil and the
agendas thatyou're puttingforward. And Ilove thisCouncil. This isso exciting.
CHAIR LEE: Bill,could you stateyour name forthe record, please?
MR. GREENLEAF: My name is BillGreenleaf and we've been farming on Maui for sixteen
years. When Istartedfarming, Isaw the annual postingthatwe were going to have a
drought restrictionand aftera couple of years, Istartedasking myself,why aren'twe
buildingmore reservoirs? Why aren'twe fixingthe watershed? Why aren'twe, and I
got together with a group of farmers and ranchers about ten years ago, thisisa very
importanttopic,Dave Taylor was the Water Director.
And Ijustwant to give you a littlehistoryon what it'sliketo be a citizendealing with
problems and why I appreciate what you're doing so much. When we talked to
Mr. Taylor, about reservoirs,he advised us that the way the Water Department could
make improvements was out of ordinary income and the people weren't,didn'thave an
appetitefor raisingrates. So, we researched itand found out the general obligation
and general fund bonds could infactbe used for infrastructureand we advised him of
itand never got much feedback. And one day Ifound myself coming out of Council
testifying,ridingdown the elevatoralone with David and Iasked him, you know, what
are you doing about this,what . . . and he actuallyturned his back on me and faced
the corner in the elevator as we rode down and didn't say another word to me. And I
was polite.Ididn'tfeelpoliteafterhe turned his back on me.
Well, we've had another Water Director that didn't do anything. We've had multiple
Mayors that said they were going to do something. We've got a Mayor now thatsaid
he was going to do something. We've got a Mayor's spokesperson who said today that
they want to have some conversations about itnow thatthey know it'simportant.And
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 65
I think every citizenon Maui is tiredof conversations about things that don't go
anywhere.
I reallyappreciate thatthisisa second vote and we're on our way to a fullvote and
then we're on our way to a Charter amendment. And Ithinkthe people should be
deciding thisand Iapplaud allof you thathave put thisforward and taken itso farand
reallygratefulthatMaui County can finallyhave a plan. Iknow it'sdifficult.Everything
we ever heard about taking over a water operation was going to have a lotof critics
and what ifs;and how much is? And I can see by the work that you've put intothis
resolution,this bill,that you've looked at allof that and you've come up with a
comprehensive plan thatwillwork and itwillbe good forthe people and itwillbe fairto
the corporations.Iapplaud you. Thank you.
And the other thingIwanted to mention was the,isthe planningcommissions. Ireally
likedwhat Dick Mayer said. Dm, I know in my 22 years here I'vebeen involvedin
agricultureand activism,and I'vegottento know people inallpartsofthe island,they
are allvery different.And Istronglysupport thatwe realignthe planningprocess and
make itmore local,more responsive to the communities thatare affecteddirectly.And
that'sabout it.Iyield--
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions?
MR. GREENLEAF: --whoever's next.
CHAIR LEE: Well, let'ssee ifthey,ifwe have questions foryou.
MR. GREENLEAF; Okie doke.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody? Any Member? Looks likeno questions.
Thank you, Bill.Good seeing you.
MR. GREENLEAF: Okay, thank you, Council Chair. Aloha, Councilmembers.
COUNTY CLERK: Madam Chair, our next testifieris Robin Knox.
CHAIR LEE: And then I believe I saw Paul Delauriers on the call,so ifyou could callhim
afterwards.Paul,can you waittillRobin isdone? Okay? Ithinkit'sokay. Justcallon
Robin, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Robin-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 66
MS. ROBIN KNOX (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-151 & 22-154: Committee
Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55, 22-56. 22-57 & 22-59: and Resolution No. 22-168):
Are you ready forme?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes. we're ready foryou, Robin.
MS. KNOX: Thank you. Mahalo, Councilmembers for allowing us to testifyon ailthese
important items before you today.
Iwant to go on record as supporting 22-55, 22-154, 22-59, and 22-168. Also want to
comment on 22-151. Istronglysupport this. Ithinkthat historically,you know, there's
been conflictabout water and water shortages thatperhaps don't have to be occurring
due to the management of both the resource and by privatepartiesas well as the
County could probably do betterwith infrastructure.But Ithinkthatthe County could
have more control over our water resources and take better care of them ifwe had the
water authorityand thatwe would not be dependent on the privateforprofitoff-island
entityfor our water supply. So, Istronglysupport. Ifforsome reason, 151 would not
pass out of the Council onto the ballot,Iwould support 22-56, to have only the East
Maui Water Authority.
With regard to 22-57, the planning commission. Our currentplanningcommission has
representatives,two from Lahaina, one from Kula,two from Makawao, and threefrom
Wailuku, and there are zero from South Maui, where I live. The Maui Planning
Commission has been making a lotofdecisionsforSouth Maui thathave been strongly
objectedto by South Maui residents,particularbuildingaffordablehousing,waterways
and gulches. And there are several projectsproposed and thereare realestateagents
who are advertisingwetlands forsale,and they even say inthe ads, hey the County
Council willapprove thisifyou say you're buildingaffordablehousing.
So, you know, Ithinkthe people who liveinSouth Maui deserve representationinthe
planning commission decisions given the profound impacts such as flooding,lossof
habitat,an increased discharge of mud to the ocean. The people who are livingin,you
know, Makawao and Kula and Lahaina and Wailuku don't have to deal with the impacts
of these decisions likethe people who livein South Maui do. And so, you know, I
stronglysupport thateach residency area would have a planningcommission so that
we can protectthe qualityand the character of our communities because rightnow,
things are being decided by people who don'teven liveinour community. Thank you
very much.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 67
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Robin. Members, questions? No questions. Thank you again.
MS. KNOX: You're welcome. Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris Paul Delauriers,to be followed by Lucienne de
Naie.
CHAIR LEE: Paul are you there?
COUNTY CLERK: Lucienne de Naie.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee
Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55. 22-56, 22-57 & 22-59: Resolution No. 22-162; and Bill
No. 111 (2022)1:
Aloha, Iam here. Good to see you allagain. I'llbe testifyingon a bitof a laundry list
today, but Iwilltryto be briefwith each one because ithas been a long day. Firstof
all,on behalf of the Sierra Club Maui Group, I would liketo testifyin support of
Bill21, CD1 also known as 22-47 the outdoor lightingordinance. I think the main
decision thatfolksneed to make and Iknow thatthere's,you know, been testimony pro
and con, iswhat the actual facts are. You know, are there appropriateexemptions for
our outdoor bon dances? Are there appropriate exemptions for publicsafety? Are
there appropriatestandards foractuallydoing something thatwillbenefitour very,very
important nativebirdlifethat,thatislikea crucialpartof the eco-system. These birds
aren'tjust nice to look at when the fly,but they have a role in the eco-system and
they'rehaving difficultiesbecause of things that humans have done over the years.
So, Iapplaud the hard work of the CARE Committee, but SierraClub supports going
with theirwork. Itdoes appear thatthere isa rationalbasis to take thisstep and that it
is not going to cause the many harms that are proposed. Especially ifthere is
somewhat of an extension to give folksmore time to locatethe betterproducts.
So, moving on also behalfofthe SierraClub on Charter amendment 22-56. This isthe
East Maui Water Authority.We are instrong support of this.We have been inand out
of court foryears and years. In fact,justto letyou guys know, your land board the
other day decided that even though theirchief officer,theircase, recommended that
new revocable permits come with an additionalfee forwatershed maintenance. Your
land board in theirwisdom said, nah, we don't have to do that. Those watersheds, you
know, maybe in another year or two years, we could think about giving them some
extra money. Oh, really,like,Idon't think anybody on Maui would say that. Not any
of us thatare watching the alienspecies take over our water sheds thatwe alldepend
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 68
upon. So, we reallydo need, you know, a localvoice here. We need people who know
thisland and can speak to it,and can speak to practicalsolutionsforit.So, thank you
foryour support of that.
And then testifyingas a privateindividual.Iam testifyinginsupport ofthe other Charter
amendments, 22-55. You know, we gotta go with the times and telecommuting does
make sense. Especiallysince Wailuku isa long way away from some of the places
where our folks live.
Also, 22-57, Iparticularlyjusthave a personal preference forthisCharter amendment.
The time has come to look at Maui as a place where we have, you know, different
things going on indifferentregions of our island. Imean, forallpracticalpurposes, you
know, West Maui is another island from Central Maui. And they used to have an
advisory committee. There used to be more say from West Maui people tothe planning
commission. They reallydeserve to have theirown planning commission. South Maui
reallydeserves to have itsown planning commission. Hana reallydeserves to have
itsown planning commission and on and on.
This idea that there willnot be any centraloversight,I believethe billaddresses that
by having representativesfrom the Maui Island Planning Commission form a overall
body that deals with islandwide policies.You, you get a lotof expertisethere. You
have experts from every single region,garans, we do itthat way. So, I am in very
strong support of that.
And then the Charter Amendment 22-59, clarifyingthe residency requirements for
boards and commissions, isingeneral a very,very good idea but as Idid testifybefore,
I believethere islanguages inthere thatdoes make an exception ifthere isa person
who's a part-timeresidentwho has extraordinary skillsand iswillingto donate them.
There can be an exception made on a case-by-case basis. Which ishow itshould be
rather than it'sthe norm.
Going on to the lastcouple of items. I'm in strong support and I'm sure everyone in
this room is as well, of finding a resolution,this is item 22-162, for the Lahaina
Crossroads residents. We interviewed three or four residents at our Stand-Up Maui
meeting the other night. It'sjust heartbreaking the storywhere, you know, these are
hardworking people that pay theirrent and don't have a lotof other options cause
they've had affordablerent,relativelyaffordablerentfor,forMaui, and allof a sudden,
you know, they'regoing to be out on theirears. Hopefully,there can be an extension
of any, you know, evictionsbeing done forremodeling and therecan alsobe a solution
to purchase the property and tryto keep itaffordablecause the easiest affordable
housing to have, isthe ones we already have thatare working and so we don'thave to
displace people.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 69
And then to end, wrap thingsup, item 111, second and finalreading. This isabout the
revolvingfunds forthe cesspool conversions, and thisissomething thatreallyaffects
folks in the Haiku area or, and Huelo area, \A/here I liveand certainlyallthe way
Upcountry. Many people are going to be requiredto upgrade theircesspools to septic
systems of some sortand itwould be great forthe familiesthatare,you know, legacy
familiesthat have land but not a lotof money to have a helping hand to do that. So,
mahalo foryour considerationforallthose thingsand Ihope you guys get to vote today.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. No question forMs. de Naie, but Idid want
to ask ifthere are no objections,ifshe could stay on as a resource?
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTIONS.
CHAIR LEE: Lucienne, can you stay on as a resource person?
MS. DE NAIE; Ifsomeone can kinda text me when itcomes up. Cause it'sa good planting
day and I'vegottaget out on the farm a littlebit.Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Shane volunteeredto callyou or textyou.
MS. DE NAIE: Thank you. Thank you very much. Alright.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Alex de Roode, and Mr. de Roode willbe followed by
the testifiercallinginon the lastfourdigitsof the telephone number 9071.
MR. ALEX DE ROODE (testifying on County Communication No. 22-154 and Committee
Report No. 22-47):
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. Can you hear me, okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 70
MR. DE ROODE: Thank you for the opportunityto provide testimony today. m here to
provide testimony inopposition to item CR 22-47, CC-22-154, otherwise known as the
proposed amendments to Bill21.
Our officeand, of Climate Change, Resiliency,and Sustainabilityin the Office of the
Mayor, we are clearlyinsupport of protectingnativebirds,protectingnesting sea turtle
population, other wildlife,minimizing impacts of dark skies for nighttime viewing. These
are allthingsthatthe,thatthe intentof thisbillor the amendments to thisbillwe fully
support.
Our concern is the commercial availabilityof lightingthat meets the specifications
across a wide range of applications.And so, you heard testimony today from Johnson
Controls,intheirinvestment grade auditof our County facilities,they have come across
over 250 differenttypes of lightingapplications,exteriorlightingapplicationsthroughout
our County facilities.From theirresearch, there are not adequate options that meet
the spec forthose, forthatfullrange.
Ifyou look at the Hawaii County billthat helped to form thisbill,my understanding is
thattheirbill,or code islimitedto parking lotlightingand streetlighting.Which, ifitwas
more limitedin scope as opposed to allexteriorlightingacross both residentialand
commercial, which the amendments to Bill21 are proposing, that might be easier to
come across interms of commercially availableoptions.
Our recommendation or request isthat thisget referredback to committee forfurther
deliberation,more input from industrywould be helpfulas well as engineers, entities
likeAmerican instituteof Architects,Maui Chapter. Getting some more inputjustso
that we don't have unintended consequences that thisbillmay have interms of putting
people ina bind and not having them be able to pursue projectslikeour energy savings
performance contractingprojectthatwe’re lookingto implement tosave energy, reduce
our dependence on fossilfuels. And those savings thatwe would get from exterior
lightingare able to then go and fund other projectslikeelectrificationof transportation,
renewable energy projectsforthe County.
Ithink ifthere were justsome slighttweaks to the currentproposed bill,itcould be a
very strong and, and a billthat would be widely supported. Particularlyidentifying
where exemptions make sense, and one suggestion might be to look at something
called the hardship exemption where ifthere is not a commercially availablelighting
that meets the spec, thatthere could be an exemption made. And, and when we look
at commercially available,italso has to be warrantable;right?That we have to be able
to have an adequate warranty on these products to make sure that should they fail,
they are covered under a standard, you know, industrystandard warranty. These are
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 71
the types of fixtureswe would want to select for County projects so that in case
something goes wrong, we're covered. So, Iappreciate the opportunityto testifyand
happy to answer any questions.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. Aloha. Mr. de Roode.
MR. DE ROODE: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Have you read the bill?
MR. DE ROODE: Ihave read the bill,yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Cause there isa sectionthat says, "lightingforsports and
athleticfieldson State of Hawaii Department of Education properties,privateschool
properties,and County parks and facilitiesmay remain exempt beyond the three-year
period if,and foronly as long as, there are no compliant lightingfixturesavailablethat
meet industrystandards". So, that exception is in there. I also wanted to ask you if
you had contacted anyone at the County of Hawaii.
MR. DE ROODE; Ihave not been intouch with anyone at the County of Hawaii. Ihave been,
information has been shared with me about the warranty issues thatCounty of Hawaii
has faced insome of theirbaseyards using chip and wafer technology and thatin-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But I just, I just wanted to know because you're
presupposing about theirbilland we had asked Public Works to contactthe County of
Hawaii to findout directly,you know, that'swhy we're hearing a lotof presupposing
things from, about the County of Hawaii's bill.So, we, you know, when we were
creatingthisbill,we actuallydid talkto them. Okay. That's all.Thank you. Thank
you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Other Members with questions? Ifnot,thank you, Alex.
MR. DE ROODE: You're welcome.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifieris callingin on the telephone with the lastfour
digitsof 4068. 4068 to be followed by Scott Rollins.Okay, moving forward with Scott
Rollins,to be followed by Ke'eaumoku Kapu.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 72
MR. SCOTT ROLLINS (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Aloha. Good afternoon, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. I'm Scott Rollins, I'm from
the County Wastewater Reclamation Division. I would liketo testifyon Bill21, the
proposed outdoor lightingordinance.
We are insupport of limitinglightpollution,the affectson the environment and wildlife,
types of lightingand the intentof thisbill.Nonetheless, there are a few points I'dlike
to make that would affectour operations and that of others. I have provided some
writtentestimony but wanted to make sure you take a few issues intoaccount.
One, allow for a clear exemption fortemporary lightingforwastewater and other utility
roadway projects that require the use of lighttrees and other temporary lightingfor
wastewater and other CIP projects.We see there'san exemption forroadwork, but it
does not explicitlyinclude utilitytype CIP projectsthat are sometimes scheduled at
night to avoid daytime trafficcongestion but are not, or not within roadways. Or for
criticalconnections in work that requires low nighttime wastewater flows to avoid
potentialspills.The lightingis criticalto do the work and to keep our workers and
commuters safe.
Similarly,linebreakages, blockages and emergency repairsare not limitedto daytime
hours or to help assure everyone's safety and timely response, and tree lightingis
sometimes necessary to perform work. Perhaps changing the wording in
Section 20.35.70(C) from "roadway constructionor emergency" to "roadway and utility
constructionor emergency repair"gives this and removes the need for a broader
interpretationof the existinglanguage.
And the second point I'dliketo make is, I think we should consider deleting the
requirement forwallsurfaces hitby lightto be non-reflectivesurfaces or requirea matte
paint. . . . surfaces or surfaces help minimize the number of lightsrequired and the
energy consumption forsecurityand operations. Had a number of nighttimebreak-ins
and theft from our County baseyards that cost us tens of thousands of dollars.
Recently, we've had convertors stolen,vehiclesbroken into,vehiclesstolen,equipment
stolen, supplies, gas tanks drained. Good all around lightingis necessary as a
deterrentto prevent furtherloss of. . .footage identification. Also, non-reflectivelight
isabsorbed, thus during the day when buildingsare insunlightitwillabsorb more heat
which willresultin increased energy use, carbon footprintincrease and the associated
expense to keep equipment or occupants cool.
A thirdpoint,. . . short wavelength content to be more than two percent of blue light
should be eliminated. While we're not experts in lighting,we found itcurious that the
State Department of Land and Natural Resources, Divisionof Forestry and Wildlife,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 73
what we would consider an authorityon wildlifemanagement in the State does not
recommend this change among itsmany other suggestions. Also having thisadded
restrictionlimitsour lightingoption.
Lastly,I'dask you to consider includingour County wastewater facilitiesthatexempt,
much likeother seven day a week, 24 hour facilitieslikethe airportsand the harbors
that are included. These facilitiesare fairlylarge in nature and require perimeter
lightingand lightingof treatment basins/ponds/channels for monitoring the treatment
process, safety and security. We have several nighttime calloutswhere staffhas to
enter plants,the other facilitiesand we've come across intruders,spillsand other
things, and without lightingitwould be difficultand would be hazardous for our
employees.
And we, we allagree that lightingshould be limitedto the task area, and fixture
shielding.. .thatwe should embrace. Those are my comments, Iappreciate the time
to testify,and thanks foryour consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Scott. Questions.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. I'lldefer to Member Paltin,she had her hand
up first.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Rollins. Thank you,
Mr. Rollins. I just was wondering, I'm sorry we, we did receive plenty of written
testimony in several traunches and I just was wondering ifI,I can't recallevery
testimony thatwe read, but iwas wondering ifyou had sent yours ininwriting.
MR. ROLLINS: Yes, the question,Isent itininwriting,Isent itto County Clerk lastnight.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, okay. Thank you. I'llcheck that out more indetail.
CHAIR LEE; Member King, and then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Thanks forbeing here Mr. Rollins.And we did
hear from somebody else inDEM earliertoo insupport ofthe bill,intentofthe bill.We
did have support from Mr. JeffBagshaw from DLNR, so I'm,I'mnot sure ifyou're,why,
Ihadn'tseen any testimony againstthisbillfrom DLNR. But,Iwanted to findout ifyou
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 74
were able to contact anyone inHawaii County to see how they comply with their,their
bill,or their law.
MR. ROLLINS: No, we did not have an opportunity.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You didn'thave the opportunity?
MR. ROLLINS: Well, we're experts inwastewater, not lighting.We didn'tcontact the County
of Hawaii.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. No, Iagree, you're not experts inlighting,that'sfine.Thank
you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Okay, seems likenobody else.
Thank you, Scott. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisKe'eaumoku Kapu, to be followed by Samuel Marvel.
MR. KE'EAUMOKU KAPU (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee
Report Nos. 22-47, 22-56 & 22-57: and Resolution No. 22-166):
Aloha. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Hi. Yes, we can.
MR. KAPU: Hi. Aloha. Welina mai nei. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins and the
Members ofthe Maui County Council. My name isKe'eaumoku Kapu and I'mtestifying
on a few items: 22-57, 22-166, 22-47, 22-56, and 22-151.
And I'dlikestart.I'dliketo startoff with 22-47, the lightingbill.Ithink,you know, for
the longevityand the sake of our indigenous species out there,especiallythe birds.
And I've,I'vecome across a few of them in the past especiallywhere we're located
here inLahaina. And my only concern to thisisthat,you know, inthe HistoricDistrict1
where we are,we have not lightinginthisarea so itdetrimentalthat,you know, inthe
area that we operate, especiallyfor Mokuula, there is no lighting;Ithink it'sa good
opportunityforthe birds. But then it'sa very bad opportunityforlikea lotof the tourist
that going back to theircar thatcan'teven findtheircar because of lighting.So 1hope
that in the exemption there be some kind of clause where they can put some kind of
lightingthatwouldn't affectthe environment or the atmosphere.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 75
Now for the Planning Commission, the 22-57. I strongly support the Planning
Commissions within each community because for likeHana, itsvery complicated to
talkabout issues and we're kind of well aware, especiallyfor us that have family that
livein Hana, are basicallyleftout many times when itcomes to those points of future
planning. So Ireallystrong,stronglysupport the Planning Commissions to be placed
inthose designated communities as well.
For 22-166, on the homeless, allIcan say isyeah, you know, we've been always trying
to figure out ways on how we can provide affordable homes, but I want to kind of
caution thiscommittee, or the Council that,you know, ifyou allow these homeless, and
there's a definition between houseless and homeless. Our people, our kanaka are
houseless, they'renot homeless, thiswillalways be theirhome. Versus the people
that livehere, that find an easier way to livein Hawaii and benefit of allthe resources
justbecause they claim to be kamaaina rated.
So, I'djust liketo caution this Council to make sure that ifwe don't address the
homeless population,there'sa law in Hawaii calledadverse possession, that ifyou
allow these people to commandeer so-called areas for over 20 years, they might be
able tojustclaim those propertieson an adverse possession rule.So, Ihope you guys
can expedite something really,reallyquicklyto make sure we can address thatissue
and also tryto figureout what do we do with the touristthatwant to come here that
don'twant to go to hotelsand don'twant to go to bed and breakfastsand allthose kind
of things.
I mean you guys have a hard task and we'd liketo also strongly be involved,our
council's,and gettingback. Imean gettingto the lasttwo items.22-56 and 22-151, I
think this is strongly related. So I submit this testimony on behalf of the water
committee of ‘Aha Moku 0 Maui Inc.,which is a moku, an ‘Aha Moku Island Council
which includes all12 moku of Maui who collectivelyelect Maui representativesfrom
their active members as well as the Chair, I'm the Chair. Island councils provide
consultationregarding moku specificgenerationalknowledge and traditionalahupua'a
resource management. Each moku holds regularmeeting with theirmembers on a
monthly, or as needed basis. The Chairperson and 12 moku representativesmeet
quarterlyas a Council. The ‘Aha Moku O Maui has separate meeting of itscommittees
foraina (land),air,ocean, water, shoreline,and iwikupuna or burial.
Aha Moku O Maui supports adding a ballotitem for amending the County Charter to
establish a countywide community water authority,justas we previouslysupported the
creation of an East Maui Community Water, Water Board. We believe the voters
should be allowed to evaluate this proposed change to the County Charter and
emphasize that as a lahui, we must seek opportunities to codify input and
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 76
representationfrom culturalpractitionersand those with generational knowledge of
water resources.
And here isa testimony Iwould liketo read from Kyle Nakanelua who use to be, and
now no longer the 'Aha Moku Advisory Committee under Act 288. And he goes to say;
"Through [sic].\h\sresolutioniswell intended and a good idea intheory,my concern is
that normally when these criticalitems go to the ballots,the politicalhand takes control
and the originalintentseems to be lostinthe making. Indoing so, oftentimes.Kanaka
Maoli are shut out of the process and dismissed from having a seat at the decision
making table."
"We are gratefulthatour laws are steeped inHawaii unique publictrustdoctrinethatis
rooted in Kanaka Maoli custom and tradition.We pray that itbe acknowledged and
applied whenever policyisformed and thatthe voices of ancestralknowledge of the
mo'o from Maui Hikina,be sought after,heard, listenedto, and used to implement
restorativejusticeon the grounds and inour communities."
Mahalo, Council forthisvery opportunityforme to testifybefore you. We support all
the billsthatisbefore you. especiallythe resolutionsthatare before you. And Imahalo
you forthisopportunityand be glad to answer any of your questions. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MR. KAPU: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Samuel Marvel. To be followed by Barbara Barry.
MR. SAMUEL MARVEL, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION (testifying
on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good afternoon. Chair. Good afternoon, Councilmembers. My name isSam Marvel,
I'mthe Deputy Directorforthe Department of Parks and Recreation. I'mhere testifying
today on behalf of our department regarding agenda item 22-47, Bill21 amendments
to the Maui County Outdoor Lightingordinance. Our department opposes Bill21 as
written due to its impacts on the safety, health and financialresources of our
community.
First,the financialimpacts. Our department has spent nearly$4 millioninthe lastfive
years to comply with the current outdoor lightingordinance This involvesconvertinga
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 77
majorityor our lightingfixturesto energy efficientLED. This billwould make allofthose
fixturesnon-compliant.
Second, safety and health. This billwould require alloutdoor lightingto be fully
shielded. This includessports lightingforour outdoor playing fieldsand courts. The
fullyshielded requirement isgoing to create unsafe playing conditions for our sports
such as baseball,football,and softball.Fullyshielded means no upward pointinglight
which players need to see and track a ballinthe air.For example ina baseball game,
the outfielderwilllose sightof a pop-flyinthe air.They won't be able to see and track
the balluntilit'stoo late. This issimply not safe. Our department isconcerned that
Bill21 may eliminateallnight sports on Maui.
This billalso requires a maximum of two percent blue lightcontent. In order to meet
this criteria,color of the fixture will be like the low-pressure sodium light.The light
would be similarto the dark yellow glow of a streetlight.This isnot appropriate or safe
forsports lighting.Not only willthiscause poor color rendering,we're not aware of any
commercially availablesports lightingthatmeets thiscriteria.
Our Department has reached out to industryleaders in sports lightingand they have
no timelineon the manufacturing of a lightingsystem thatwould comply with the billas
currentlywritten.So although the Parks Department supports the intentof thisbill,we
believe it is too broad and has too many unintended consequences as written.
Therefore we'd liketo respectfullyrequest that the billbe brought back to Committee
forfurtherreview and discussion. Thank you, Councilmembers for your time and !'m
happy to answer any questions you have.
CHAIR LEE; Members.
Member King,
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you forbeing here Mr. Marvel. Idon't,
I don't know ifyou were around back then when we startedon thisbill,we've been
working on itsince earlythisyear. Did send a letterto Parks and Rec and got nothing
back. So, you know, there seemed to be no concerns. I'mcuriousthatyou are saying
thatthe shieldingof lights,which Iknow to be way above the sports,how the shielding
would affect,would keep people from being able to see on the ground fora baseball
or a football.And, and by the way, those,those sports arena applicationsare also.I'm
sorry,also exempted untilyou get the, untilthe technology isavailable. But Iwas just
curious to say, to find out why you think shieldingthem, because Idon't,I'venever
been to an arena where the lightsare lower than, you know, the activityon the ground.
So why would thatkeep folksfrom being able to see each other.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 78
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Thanks, thank you,
Councilmember King. Yes, that's,that'sa good question and so what we're,Iwant to
clarifya littlebitthere so the issue isthe players not being able to see a ballthat's
above the plane ofthe lights.So a pop fly,you know, a baseballthat'shitabove where
the lightsare,when they go above that plane, the outfielderlosses sightof thatball
while it'sup there. And then itcomes back intotheirvisionat the lastsecond when it
goes below thatplane and they might have, you know, a second or two to reacttothat
ballcoming down. You know, we currentlyhave our balltrackerswhich are upward
facing lights,with some light...
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, and, and you did,you do realizethat beyond the three
years to get compliant that parks and facility,County parks and facilitiesare, can
remain exempt as, untilthe compliant lightingfixturesare available,your industry
standards. That's in the bill.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Yeah, we're, we're aware.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And Iapologize because thatisthe one partthatyou didrespond
to,the other things you brought up I,we didn't,we didn'thear them so. You know,
they,they,and again, ifyou maybe had, did you tryto contactthe County of Hawaii to
see how they are able to comply with theirlightingbills.
No, no we haven'tDEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL:
Councilmember King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but anyway Ijustwant you to know thatthat,you know, we
talked to also schools, you know privateand publicschools and thatwas theirmain
concern. So we did put thatexemption inthere. Thank you. Thank you. Chair,
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions?
Member Sugimura,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so, Ithink in,oh, Mr. Molina had his hand up first.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay, Mr.; Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, no go ahead, Member Sugimura, Ican waitfor,Ican wait
tillyou're done.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 79
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Such a gentleman. So, duringcommittee Mr. Marvel, Karla
did send a letter,Parks did send a letterbecause Iwas lookingforwhat your response
would be because the MIL had opposition to this.And I,and I basic, Ithink what she,
I don't know the exact words, but she said she wanted thisto be exempt, the lighting
to,parks lightingto be exempt forsports.
But, so there was something that was shared from the Parks Department and when
you say, Iwant to justclarifyforthe $4 millionenergy efficient,you know, what you've
done. What was that that you did? And was that a complete overhaul I guess, or I
don'tknow what the rightword is,but of,of the parks lightingsystem.
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 2:23 p.m.)
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL; Yes, so that,that money
was spent mostly to convert lightingto,to LED's, efficiencyand be compliant with the
currentoutdoor lightingordinance. So to make the lightsfullyshielded ina lotofareas,
and-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, so itwas for,thiswas forparks,you did thatforall
the differentapplicable parks lightingto make us compliant.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, and this would change, this would change what
Parks isdoing,or what Parks justdid. This would just-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Yeah, so allthe lights,the
$4 millionworth of fixturesthat were installed,those would no longer be compliant due
to the blue light.Those would allhave to be changed out again.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Other questions. Members?
Oh, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Chair Lee. I'm glad you finallysaw me. Aloha,
Mr. Marvel and thank you forthisrevelationifyou will,I never thought I'dever hear,
you know, shieldinglightscould potentiallyaffect,you know, baseball or what have
you. So, the MIL expressed opposition or concern about the shieldingof lights.And
have you, Iknow itwas asked of you about networking with the big,fellowBig Island
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 80
officials.Are, are you aware of any of theirlightinginthe parks, on theirballfields,do
they have shielding.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL; We, we haven't been in
contact with,with the Big island'son what their,what they are doing over there. . . .
not aware.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, and when you mention your testimony thatitcould stop
any nightactivities.Imean isthatwhat the Administration potentiallyisthinkingthatif
they'rea liabilityconcern so to speak, thatyou could stop allnightactivities.Cause if
that happens, Itellyou thiscommunity isgoing to be in uproar. But,then again too,if
itsbecause of the lightingand itcould cause a potentialproblem, has that discussion,
that,that subject matter been discussed about, you know, curtailingany night ball
games, football,baseball,etc.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Oh, yeah, that's,thank you
Councilmember Molina, yes, that's,it'sa concern, it'sdefinitelya big concern thatwe
have. Obviously safety is number one, we can't,we can'thave, we can'tbe putting
users in danger so that'sa, that'sa possibilitythat,that,you know, night baseball
games would have to,would have to be stopped.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay, thank you. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Marvel. I had a question
about the fixtureupgrades. Do you ever envision a time when it's,the fixtureisstill
okay but you justchange the bulb.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Thank you,
Councilmember Paltin. I believe most of the fixtures would have to be completely
changed out from, and I'm not, likeIsaid I'm not an expert on the matter.I'dhave to
look intoitfurtherbut from, from my preliminaryknowledge, most of the fixtureswould
need to be completely replaced.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And then, the current fixtures that we have, when the bulbs
burn out,you change the bulb,or are these lifetimebulbs.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL; So our current, our current
fixturesare LED’s, they don't,they don’t have bulbs. So the LED fixtureitselfwould
need to be changed out to comply with,with thisbill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 81
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN; I,! understand that,Ijustwas wondering are, willthe, the
currentfixturesthatwe have, do they lastforeveror, Imean.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Yeah, I,thanks, thank you
Councilmember Paltin.Yeah, Ibelievethey lastquitea long time, imean, I,Ithinkthe
the lifespanisaround ten years forthose fixtures.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions: Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Marvel.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION MARVEL: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, Ithink Mr. Delauriers has returned.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, letme callup Barbara Barry. And that Barbara willbe followed by
Paul Deslauriers.
CHAIR LEE: You're muted Paul. Can't hear you.
MS. BARBARA BARRY hestifyinq on County Communication Nos. 22-151 & 22-154;
Committee Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55, 22-56. 22-57, & 22-59: Resolution No. 22-168:
and BillNo. 111 (2022)1:
Oh, hi,is itPaul or is itBarbara.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'msorry,Isaw Paul pop up and starttalking.So, no it'syour turn,Ms. Barry.
MS. BARRY: Oh, great. Aloha everyone. It'sbeen reallyfascinatingto listento everyone's
testimony and the comments today on allthese important issues. So, Ihave several
things Iwant to comment on today so I'lljustget righton it.So firstof allIwant to
mahalo Chair Lee,. Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, and all of our
Councilmembers forworking so hard on allof these of issues. My name isBarbara
Barry, I'm a resident of Haiku and I'm a kupuna, a farmer, and an environmental
protector.Iam speaking formyself today. Thank you forthe opportunityto share my
testimony on the followingitems.
I'm here to ask for your support on County Communication 22-151 and Committee
Report 22-56. Iappreciatethe testifiersthathave gone before me today,especially
testifiernumber four, Napua Hueu, I hope I'm not totallymessing up her lastname;
testifiernumber 24, Toni Eaton; and testifier18, David Henkin from Earthjusticeas they
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 82
allstatedthe carefulmanagement of our water are matters thataffectthe qualityof life
for our current residents, our Hawaiian practitioners,our future generations, and
specificallysecuring abundant freshwater fordrinking,farming, livestock,cultural,wild
food, and herb foraging. Our water should not be a commodity thatiscontrolledby a
major corporation,and especiallyby a Canadian pension fund thatisbeholden to their
shareholders only. We can watch inrealtime how thishas played out across the world
when corporate interestscontrolwater, it'snever a good thing.
With climate change affectingus, thishas become even more criticalto manage our
precious wai resource, especially as we striveto have more food securityby growing
food locallyin our County. As a Kula Ag Park commissioner and as a farmer, Imust
say ifyou don't have the water, you don't have the food. It'sreallyvery simple. So
144 years to reclaim the people’s controlover our most basic human and food supply
resource need isfartoo long.
You've heard from countless testifierswhy thisisan important Charter amendment for
the Maui County Water Authorityand East Maui Community Regional Board, and why
itneeds to be put on the ballotforthe citizensto vote on. This isailvery important.
To hear thismorning thatour currentMayor and Administrationisopposed to allowing
the people to weigh inon thiscriticaldecision isactuallyastounding to me. He should
trustthe taxpayers who pay his salaryto make good choices. I,Ibelieve he does work
forthe people and not the corporate interestsof,of our County.
So please pass these measures today and formallyapply forthe East Maui water lease
from the DLNR. Our current Mayor has had ample time to do this,and hasn't moved
forward on it.
Councilmember Sinenci, Vice-Chair Johnson, and their stafffor giving this Charter
amendment the attention itdeserves to move forward with Maui County managing its
most precious resource. Let the voters decide. Mahalo
Much gratitude toIt needs to happen as soon as possible.
My second comment ison County Communication 22-154, 21, and 22-47, protecting
our seabirds from outdoor lightpollution.Istronglysupport thisimportantamendment
to protectnot only our nativebut our migratory seabirds. We have at leastone species
that I'm aware of,the littleplover birdthat comes in from Alaska every year. And I'm
just confidentthat allthe concerns for law enforcement, waste management, sports
teams' needs have been addressed, or will be addressed so thiscan be passed today.
Ifwe cannot protect our native seabirds from lightpollution,who, who will? The
unintended consequences of not protectingour sea birds isextinction.So mahalo to
Councilmember King, Vice-Chair Sinenci, and staffand Councilmember Molina also
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 83
for allyour past work to deal with lightpollutionand allof itsimplications . So please
tryand vote thisthrough today. That would be reallyexcellent.
Let'ssee. My next comment ison the 22-55. Icompletely support establishinga policy
fortelecommuting and alternativework schedules forsome County workers. Not only
willthissave the County money by not needing as much officespace and resources,
but itwillreduce the carbon footprintof those workers as well as reduce pressure on
our roads. With the cost of gas, itwillmake itmore affordableforthe employee to
survive by not paying allthat extra money for gas for theircommuting as well as
parking.
These workers with children can also benefit by being at home when the kids get
dropped offfrom school. Having a parent at home is super important for our keiki.
We've seen through thispandemic thatworking from home isindeed lessstressfuland
as productive and more affordablethan travelingintothe officedaily. Mahalo to Chair
Molina, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, and staff for introducing this Charter
amendment.
My next comment ison 22-57. I'm asking for your support for allowingthe Planning
Commission to represent allcommunities of Maui County, and these are commissions
that are County based, Imean not County based, but community based, notjustLanai
and Molokai. The island of Maui is so diverse with climate,tourism, country,and other
factors that the individuals who live in these different areas are best to know how to
represent theirneeds and issues. I support Dick Mayer's testimony as well. Please
support thisRevised Charter amendment by dissolvingthe Maui Planning Commission
and let the voters decide.
Okay, I'm onto 22-59. I support the County requiring board commissioners and
committee members to be residents of Maui County. I also agree with the earlier
testifierthat encourages the Council to be a larger voice in the choice of these
committee members, committee and board members, not a decision made by the
current Mayor and then passed on to the County Council forapproval. A more diverse
cross-section of citizenswillget elected to the many boards that need members. I
know a lotof people who have applied for positionsto volunteer for commissions and
boards who are never contacted because those people are known not to be in
agreement with the currentAdministration.
So the lastcouple things here. I'm almost done. 22-168, the hardships of R v. Wade
reversal. Iapplaud, Iapplaud Maui County forformallysupporting not only our wahine,
. . .and ohana, but also I'dliketo see included in this,our kane who are a crucialpart
and so important in the health of a family. I appreciate the earliertestifierLeslee
Matthews, her testimony was thoughtfuland super important. Mahalo foryour support.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 84
My lastone is Bill111, set for finalreading. I support the County to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Health concerning cesspool
conversion. Like Ms. De Naie mentioned earlier,this is important issue as untreated
waste is potentiallyaffectingour freshwater source. Today during lunch I noticed in
the Maui Now article that there is a seminar or a Zoom teaching coming up on July 6,
that istalkingabout nature based solutionsto cesspools. So I signed up forthat,I
thought itwas prettyinterestingand may be a resource forthe Councilmembers to also
consider. Thank you so much and Ihope you allhave a greatweekend.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. No questions. Thank you.
MS. BARRY: Bye.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Paul Delauriers, to be followedby ChiefVentura, under
Maui Fire .
CHAIR LEE: So Paul,Ithinkyou'remuted, can'thear you. He's muted on hisend. Try again
Iheard you. No, now we don'thear you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Maybe ifyou take offyour head, your-
CHAIR LEE: We can'thear you again. You want to read one ofyour ear buds? No, Iguess
not. Yeah, maybe we can callthem. Staff.What's that? Okay, well how, we call
somebody else inthe meantime. Okay, we only have about 40 more right.
COUNTY CLERK: Next up while we're tryingto get Mr. Delauriersonlinewillbe Brad Ventura
Maui Fire.
MR. BRAD VENTURA. FIRE CHIEF ftestifyingon County Communication No. 22-154: and
Committee Report No. 22-47):
Well, good afternoon,everybody. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. hi.Brad.
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: Aloha. Ho you guys have a marathon meeting today so I’llmake
thisquick. My name isBrad Ventura, FireChief forthe Department of Fireand Public
Safety,and today I'mwith you allto testifyregarding Bill21,the regulationsforoutdoor
lighting.Through listeningto the testifierstoday I understand thatthere is a, an
exemption thathas been put back inforpublicsafetyso thatisvery reassuring.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 85
I'djustliketo add why Isupport that exemption. Basically,our firefightersare often
firstresponders inemergencies during the evenings. These take place and are often
requiringadditionallightingwhile we're on scene. We use portable floodlightsand
other brightlightsin certainemergencies. At vehicle collisions,firefighterswould use
the lights,not only to perform theirduties,but also to lightthe roadways so thatpasser
byers can see what's happening on the highway.
Annually in,700 people are injuredor fatallywounded on highways doing work per
year in the United States. And so one of the main safety factors we have is using
lighting.So we support thatexemption. We also use lightingforour search and rescue
operations inthe evening, whether it'sin neighborhoods or inthe wilderness area. So
that'sanother area we would not be able to use lightingifthis exemption were not
given.
Since thisbillwould affectportablelight,emergency lights,we request thattemporary
lightingused forpublicsafety isadded back inas an exemption, which thismorning I
heard itis,so thank you . Without thisexemption itwould be difficultfor us as a
department to adequately respond to emergencies and serve our community and keep
everybody safe
Being that I’veheard other testifierstalkabout thisthismorning, Iwillsay mahaio to all
of you for allyour hard work and dedication. Happy Fourth of July and use your
fireworkssafelythisweekend.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, our pets willthank you. Let'ssee, questions.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, thank you. Thank you, Chief. For clarificationon ifwe
justsay publicsafety,you're fine. Is there any more to itor,or isthere likea legal
County Code definitionthatwe need to plug inso people understand the depth ofwhat
publicsafety means to fireand police?
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: Well, public safety is very broad, so itwould probably need
additionalexplanation. But ifwe, ifsomething was writteninthere directlyand specific
to our department, liketo perform the duties,the necessary dutiesthatare tasked to
the Department of Fire and Public Safety, portable lightingcould be used, that'dbe
specific to us. Ifwe talk about public safety that could cover, you know, Sheriffs,
DLNR, DOCARE, Fire, Medics, Police, that could cover allof those entities.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 86
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Would we need to listthem or it's,it'sfine? It'sclear
enough.
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: It'sclearenough to us. Itjustdepends how criticalpeople get.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, and I agree with you no fireworks. I mean, it'sso
dangerous, not no fireworks,but be careful.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, other questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here Brad, I really
appreciate it.And justwanted to justre,just read the,the statement, the exemptions
so thatyou're comfortable with it.itsays, except thattemporary portablelightingused
for emergency services,includingpublicsafety,road construction,emergency repair,
road crossing. And then itgoes intosports and athleticsand thingslikethat. So, you
know, we didn't,we wanted itto cover emergency services for policeand for other
departments as well.
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: Great, Ithink that statement works for our Department.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, great. Thank you so much.
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? Any more questions. Ifnot,thank you Brad.
FIRE CHIEF VENTURA: Mahalo, guys. Have a safe weekend.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
To be followed by NickChair, our next testifieris Maya Hara.COUNTY CLERK:
Nikhilananda.
MS. MAYA HARA, LAHAINA JODO MISSION (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-47):
Hi,thank you so much. I'mcallingfrom Lahaina Jodo Mission,and we were wondering
isthe exemption going to cover Bon Dances as well? The Bon Dance isa religious
observance that'sbeen held, you know, in Hawaii for over a 100 years. And each
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 87
temple on Maui organizes a Bon Dance on one or two nightsevery weekend during,
during a two and a halfperiod,you know, halfperiod month inthe summer. Basically,
itruns from 6:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and a lotof our lightingactuallyisalready covered
with paper lanternsor plasticlanterns.So there isalready a filterover the,the light.
And we were justhoping thatwe do care about the protectingthe endangered species,
but we're wondering if,how much ofan impact the Bon Dance has and ifthe Bon Dance
can be exempted as, because it'sjusta temporary lighting.Ifit'salso covered by the
exemption. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, thank you. And Iknow you didn'twant us to explainthis,
but Ido want to justask the,the testifier,thank you foryour testimony, by the way, I
reallyappreciate itand I love Bon Dances too. But the Amendment Summary Form
willsay alloutdoor lightingfixturesinstalledor used as portable lightingpriorto the
enactment of the ordinance. So yours isjustportable,justcomes out forthe activities.
MS. HARA: So justthe portable part isthe problem. The, the-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, no, that's,that'sexempted, so you're okay.
MS. HARA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Because you don'thave them up-
MS. HARA: --for Bon Dances-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -every day right.
MS. HARA: No, we justhave them fora few hours.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right,so you’re,you're good.
MS. HARA: Okay, thank you so much.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And you're also shielded, as you said. So that'seven, that'sa
double, that'sdoubly good.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 88
MS. HARA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Nick Nikhilananda. To be followed by Sky Kalalau.
MR. NICK NIKHILANANDA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee
Report Nos. 22-47, 22-55, 22-56. & 22-57: and Resolution Nos. 22-166 & 22-168):
Aloha, Maui County Council. Mahalo forthe opportunityto testify.Iam Nikhilananda,
livingin Huelo for25 years and as of thisSunday on Maui for36 years. Ifirstwant to
speak insupport of CR 22-55 on climate change, CR 22-57 on the Charter amendment
for Planning Commissions throughout Maui County, and CR 22-47 on lighting,and
R 22-168 on the recent Supreme Court decision. Ialso want to stronglyurge that on
R 22-166 on unauthorized camping, to remove anything relatingto actions against our
houseless unsheltered citizens.
However, what drew me tothisMaui County Council meeting today are CC 22-151 and
CR 22-56. I recentlyhad two lettersprintedin both the Lahaina News and the Maui
News, highlycriticalof the poor performance of our recent Charter Commission, where
I testifiedon numerous times on various proposals. They refused to adopt many
beneficialproposals for our citizensto vote on in November. Itissad that voters do
not have an opportunityto vote on districtvoting,leaving in place our current absurd,
unsatisfactory,discriminatory and undemocratic system of electing our County
Councilmembers.
Yet here isanother opportunityto adopt something I have spoken about for25 years.
For the residents of Maui to control both our surface and groundwater. I recently
attended a nine hour Native Hawaiian trainingcourse. The knowledge and information
was enlightening.Learning how much thatMaui County and the State of Hawaii have
not been in compliance of our State Constitution and Hawaii Revised Statutes. Itis
disgracefulthatprivate,forprofitmultinationalcorporations controlour water. Please
place thisamendment on the ballotfor us to decide and vote on this November.
On a relatedside note, why are Upcountry and West Maui required to cut back their
water usage, while South Maui, basicallya desert,does not. And of course, out here
in Huelo, as per usual, itisraining.Mahalo and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. Ifnot, thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 89
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is--
MR. NIKHILANANDA: Mahalo and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: And Sky willbe followed by Shay Chan Hodges.
MS. SKY KALALAU (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-56):
Hello,can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KALALAU; Yes. okay. My name isSky Kalalau and I’mtestifyingon behalfof my family
that live down Waikoloa in Hana, Maui, that suffered the effects of lack of waterflow
from mountain to sea that is also accompanied by the landfillthat'sdown there too.
And so because of allthese things thatare happening, disease isrampant down there.
And my kids,my parents allgot infectionsbecause of these two differentsituations
down there. And the lack of water creates stagnation,thus breeding disease thatjust
causes horrificproblems to the naturalecosystem. And so Ihighlysupport some kind
of committee created to protectthese water rightsbecause we need our water inorder
to be healthy. So that'smy testimony on that. Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Are you done?
MS. KALALAU: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Questions. We have a question foryou.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And aloha. Ms. Kalalau foryour testimony
thisafternoon. Just one quick question you, are you supportiveof,of thisgoing to the,
to the electorate to decide?
MS. KALALAU: Definitely.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Okay, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 90
MS. KAU\LAU: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifieris Shay Chan Hodges.
Schaefer.
To be followed by Madge
MS. SHAY CHAN HODGES (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151 and Committee
Report Nos. 22-55 and 22-56T
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name isShay Chan Hodges and I'm testifyingon 22-56
and 22-151.
But before I do, I wanted to give a shout out to the Charter amendment on
telecommunications because before Iwas a water person, Iwas a familycenter design
advocate forworking familiesperson and I'vebeen talkingabout thisIfeellikeforever.
So I'mso glad thatyou guys are lookingat it.Inadditiontothe obvious climatechange
impacts, there’sallof the caregivingand familycenter design impacts thathave to do
with people being able to care fortheirkids,being able to care fortheirkupuna, being
able to,you know, have flextime with theirwork thatifyou do this,you are going to
have better workers because you willhave better retention,productivity,market
competitiveness. You willhave to be able to have time of use at your house. And so
you willhave lower electricrates. There's allthese great things,so thank you, thank
you, thank you, i,that made me so happy Ididn'teven know itwas on there. So good
work, whoever put iton there.
But as far as 56 and 151 go, I just want to take a minute to thank all the
Councilmembers who are doing the hard work rightnow to protectthe futureof these
islands. Without water, we don't have food, we don't have housing. Without the
protection and stewardship of the streams themselves, every aspect of human and
non-human lifethatthey affect,Imean, Idon'teven know what our livesinthisCounty
would look likewithout stream water. Itdoesn't, itdoesn't make any sense not to do
everything we can to protectit.
So what's happening today at this Council meeting is hugely important,and allthe
testimony of the lasttwo months in favor of community management of our water
resources demonstrates justhow important itisto our Maui County residents.It'svery
clear that the Councilmembers in favor of a Charter amendment are fullyaware of how
importantthisistothe community. Aftermore than a hundred years ofongoing outside
exploitationand extractionof so many of our resources, proactivecommunity based
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 91
management of our water is reallyjust the firststep in taking back our future,and it
takes work. But it'sinfrastructurebuilding,enduring work thatwillprotectthe futureof
our children,our grandchildren,theirgrandchildren,and so on.
Given the global and national issues that we are facing,which are feelingmore and
more direevery day, takingthe steps necessary today to make sure thatwe can protect
and steward our qualityof lifehere inMaui County iscrucial.Iappreciateevery one of
you who recognizes how important your job isand who's willingto do the hard work
thatitrequires.And Iappreciateallthe community members who have been speaking
up here, not justat the Council meetings, but at community association meetings on
socialmeeting, socialmedia, etc. So we have huge challenges to overcome, but with
such a strong community and courageous and proactive leaders, Ibelieve we can do
itbecause we have to. Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. No questions forMs. Chan Hodges, justif
consideration,she could stay on as a resource, just—
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you
CHAIR LEE; So ordered. Could you stay on as a resource person?
MS. CHAN HODGES: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifierisMadge Schaefer. To be followed by Junior Tupai.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Schaefer. Followed by whom, followed by whom. We're having technical
problems.
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry,sorry.Junior Tupai.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you forwaiting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 92
MR. JUNIOR TUPAI (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Alright. Aloha. My name is Junior Tupai, candidate for Lieutenant Governor, but
currentlyjustcoming as one ofthe people. Mahalo, Madam Chair and the Maui County
Council forthe opportunityto testifyinstrong support of CR 22-56 and 22-151.
Just very briefly,I'llgo from Article16, Section 4 of Hawaii State Constitutionthatpublic
servants have swore oath to support and defend the United States Constitutionand
the Hawaii State Constitution,therefore not only as public servants, but also as
trustees,trustees are people appointed and required by law to execute the Hawaii
State Constitution and the United States Constitution.
Therefore, I'llpullfrom ArticleI,Section 1 and ArticleI,Section 2 of Hawaii State
Constitution, ArticleI,Section 1, "Allpoliticalpower of thisState is inherent in the
people and the responsibilityforthe exercise thereof restswith the people." Itdoes
not rest in these chambers. Itdoes not restwith Mayor Victorino. Itrestswith the
people who testifiedearliertoday and also the people who are testifyingon the stream
as well. Allauthorityrestswith the people.
And so, you know, justseeing that moving on, you know, where does thatcome from,
the authorityor the permission or the consent from the Declarationof Independence,
"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that allmen are created equal,thatthey have
been endowed by theircreatorwith certainunalienablerights,among these rightsare
Life, Liberty,and the Pursuit of Happiness." And that to secure those rights,
governments, these chambers were institutedamong men, deriving theirnot just
powers, but justpowers from the consent, from the permission or from the authorityof
we the government, which segways rightintomy lastone.
Article1,Section 2 of our State Constitution,allpersons are free by nature and are
equal in theirinherent and inalienablerights.Among these rightsare life,liberty,the
pursuitof happiness, and the acquiringand possessing of property,the wai,the water.
But itgoes on to say thatthese rightscannot endure unlesswe, the people,recognize
our corresponding obligationsand responsibilitiesor obligationsand responsibilityto
teach and to instructour servants. And for the past, ever since I'vebeen here since
9:00,justhearing overwhelmingly thatpeople are insupport of22-56 and also 22-151.
To segway into that regarding 22-151, I do agree with the testimony earlierof
Mr. O'Shea statingthat I do agree with a board being assembled, but however not
being appointed by a committee but being elected by the people. That inthe end our
State motto "Ua Mau ke Ea o ka Aina ika Pono", "The lifeof the land isperpetuated in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 93
righteousness" in rightstanding with the people that it'sbeholden to the people. The
allegiancesgo, allegiancesgo firstto the people. So withthatsaid,mahalo again for
the opportunity. Iyield.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions. No questions. Thank you very much.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaniloa Kamaunu. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
CHAIR LEE; Maybe we should go to Madge Schaefer first.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, we’llcallup Madge Schaefer.
MS. MADGE SCHAEFER (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright,Madge, could you juststateyour name forthe record.
MS. SCHAEFER; My name is Madge Schaefer, testifyingfor myself. Iam expressing my
opposition to the proposed outdoor lightingbillas currentlywritten.While the stated
purpose to protect maiden flightsof seabird chicks from their nesting burrows on
Haleakala isa good one, itgoes way beyond what isreasonable,safe,and affordable
for the humans on Maui.
Iwas curious,so Igathered informationabout seabirds. Ilearnedthatthe early,inthe
early partof June 2022, well afterthisbillwas introduced,a new radar trackingtruck
startedmonitoring seabird activityon Maui to determine birdpopulation.That data is
not yet available.What isknown isthatthe valleyson the Hana side of Haleakala are
hotspots forseabird activityas they make theirway to the sea.
Related to the tracking,chicks do not have trackingbands nor do every pairproduce
an egg every year. What is known isthat many factorscontribute,what isknown is
many factorscontributeto unsuccessful fledglingflightsor fallout.Health ofthe chick,
the amount of down on the chick, wind, weather conditions, even the phase of the
moon. Power lines also create bird hazards and have caused major fallouton Kauai.
Peak seasons forfledglingflightsisSeptember 15 to December 15 each year. As I
understand, the birds are most active within the firsttwo hours of darkness. Seabird
falloutis estimated on Maui to be about 60 to a 100, but the percentage of those from
lightdisorientationisunknown. Iwould liketo thank Martin Frye ofthe Maui Nui Seabird
Projectwho spent a lotof time with me answering my questionsand educating me. I'm
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 94
gratefulforhiswillingnessto spend time with me. They have an excellentwebsite, by
the way.
As currentlywritten,thisbillwould impact privateproperty securitylightsincommercial,
hotel,and residentialareas. Grocery stores and other commercial activitieswould
have to turn lightsoffafter11 p.m. Bars close at 1:00 a.m. and willsend patrons into
unlitparking lots. Home securitylightswould have to be on timers limitedto five
minutes. Water features without lightscreate a safety hazard. Many restaurants now
have tablesoutsideto comply with COVID restriction,they use stringlightsto illuminate
these areas. They would no longer be allowed. The rodeo, the County Fair,Friday
Night block partiescould not comply. Even the ever popular drunk drivingenforcement
check points would be unlit,but thatwas cleared up earlierinthe testimony earlier.
Holiday nights would be restrictedforthose of us that have neighbors that leave their
Christmas lightsup allyear. That might be a blessing.The safetyofpeople afterdark
would be jeopardized. Many work nightshiftsand would be returningto theirvehicles
inthe dark. Millionsof dollarsworth of streetlightingfixtureswillhave to be junked for
Public Works. The new lightbulbsare not readilyavailableand willbe expensive. If
the entireisland was taken to black, the impact of fullspectrum headlightsof motor
vehicles would stillcreate a hazard to seabirds. Will my drivingbe restrictedto protect
the birds.
I'veread previous testimony from many groups thathave expressed concern, including
the County's Department of PublicWorks withCorporation Counsel. Many others have
submitted compelling information about the adverse effectsof this bill.Begs the
question who wrote thisbill?But based on the testimony thismorning, itappears that
itwas writtenby David Henkin, Icertainlyhope itwasn't done at $850 an hour.
This billshould be sent back to Committee. Allaffected partiesshould be brought to
the tableand a compatible lightingordinance should be designed. The billneeds to be
mindful of impacts to people on Maui and offerreasonable solutions.Iurge, Iurge you
to send thisback formore study and revisions.We can protectthe birdsand the people
of Maui equally. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Madge Schaefer for,sounds
likeyou did a lotof research and, on the birds you're saying that according to the
research thatyou received,theirpeak time,Iguess, isSeptember to December, isthat
what you said.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 95
MS, SCHAEFER; That isaccording to the DLNR website. They are saying that that isthe
peak times, September 15 through December 15. And actually the chicks, the
gestation period for the eggs istwo months and then six months in the burrow, and
then, then they make the,those virginflightsinthe next two months.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So these are the birds that we are protectingforthisperiod.
MS. SCHAEFER: Didn'thear you.
CHAIR LEE: Madge, did you hear the question?
MS. SCHAEFER: No, Idid not. I'm sorry,Iguess I--
CHAIR LEE: Yuki,you want to.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, so, so Madge Ijustwanted to know that from your
research, then these are the birds, or the birds that we're tryingto protectare inflight
or theirpeak time isSeptember 15 to December 15.
MS. SCHAEFER: That's correct. And that information is from the DLNR website.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions. Members? Ifnot,thank you, Madge. Thank you very
much.
MS. SCHAEFER: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifyisKaniloa Kamaunu. To be followed by Junya Nakoa
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: and Committee
Report No. 22-56):
Aloha mai kakou. Council, Council Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 96
MR. KAMAUNU: Kaniloa Kamaunu from Waihee. So I’m not sure what the, what the areas
are, but I'm talkingabout the water as far as with the East Maui and I believe the
governance that they’regoing on. So, you know, today I'veheard a lot,a lotof
testimonies and, saying in favor of,of that puttingiton the ballot. I don't have a
problem with that. Ido have a problem with certain,certain,you know, reservations,
A lotof itisto deal with actuallykanaka rights.I'vebeen dealing with water rightsfor
over the last13 or 14 years. I'vebeen involved as far as protectingkuleana rightsin
Waihee.
And so, you know, my concern isand itstillhasn'tbeen addressed by the State or the
County as faras, as faras our contingency being,being a group that isrecognized as
differentfrom the restof the public. You callita public trust,but reallyit'snot a public
trust.It'smore of an obligationthatthe County has been given through the State by
the Federal government. Ifyou look at your Admissions Act of 1959, Subsection 19, it
statesclearlythatthe nationalityof kanaka maoli willnever change. The United States
claim thatthey can, they couldn'tchange it,they couldn'trestoreit,they didn'thave the
power to do so. So we remain the same as back then. We stillkanaka.
What has happened isthe verbiage,the use of Native Hawaiian. Native Hawaiian has
taken over the verbiage of kanaka maoli. These are two differententities.Kanaka
maoli is a real people, that isthe people of thiscountry. And we, according to the
United States and theirFederal documents, are stillthose people. According to them,
itisa politicalrelationshipthat we have with the United States. With that being said,
to change us isgoing against your 1959 Admissions Act and then throwing us inwith
the restof the public. Cause when you read the U.S. Codes under Native Hawaiian
1) they callus United States citizens;2) they also combine us with kamaaina, and their
definitionofkamaaina isany residentof Hawaii. So thisgets convoluted when itcomes
to our naturalrights.
We gained our rightsin 1839, through our constitutionalrightscame then, the Billof
Rights. 1840 we became a constitutionalgovernment which recognized three groups
of people, the mo‘T, the alT'i,and the maka'ainana. And they also gave rightsto all
lands,as wellas resources to those three groups calledvested rights.1859, we know
that Mahele Act gave us the authorityor the governance over our privatelands. And
with that came the water. This, we got our lands through the use of water. And so we
have water rightsthatwas given to us.
In 1989, 1998, the Ku‘e Petitionwas sent to Congress, solidifyingwho we were. And
what we didn'twant to happen was to become Americans. Again, in 1959 they
solidifiedthat and agreed that we are stillthose people. And with thatbeing said,all
rightsare vested intowater. So when you create these entities,these entitiesthatyou
create is not for the public trust.You guys have the obligationforthe publictrust.But
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 97
your biggest obligationisyour trustobligationto the people that actuallyown it,which
isthe kanaka maoli, not Native Hawaiians. That's your terminology, kanaka maoli. I'm
kuieana seven generation Waihee. So when we talkabout these things,itconcerns
me that we are not being dealt with properly. We are being put as a side, likeside
salad, we're on the side,extra,you know. But then they come to us inyour guys own
water billswe're inAppendix 10.
You know, I thank Shane and his, his Committee for the work that they've done, but
there needs to be more clarificationon who you're dealing with. So I come with
reservations on these two areas because you have to address us, which isaccording
to your Federal Acts that we stillthe same people. And ifwe are,then the rightsare
ours. And people benefitbecause of the kanaka maoli,they get theirrightsbecause
we stillhave our rights.
Ifwasn't so, according to your government, everything is economics, everything is
commerce. They took Hawaii incommerce. That means thatobligation,the governing
body's obligation,isto commerce. That isforemost and that means people likeHui
Pono, I mean, excuse me, Mahi Pono, who everybody's ... isa foreigner isgoing to
come and ... for the next 50 years under their thumb while looking at itfrom our
perspective. We've been under thisfor 129 years, 129 years we've been under this
governance. For 129 years we have not been addressed. We have been taken
advantage of and our stuffisalldestroyed. When you look upon us, do you see what
the changes are and the devastation?
So when we talkabout these things, I take itserious because for me, 1 uphold the
constitutionofthe Kingdom of Hawaii. Iuphold my constitutionalrights.Iuphold what
my kupuna saidthatwe are stillsovereign,which iswhat the Federal government says.
That being said,when you guys look at what you guys are doing and allthese things,
we need to come first.Kala mai that people feel upset. But the thing Is,what isright
is right.What istrue istrue.
You guys are taking,you guys took the classes from Keanu Sai. He toldyou about the
land rights.We have those rights.We are the kanaka maoli. We are the keikio ka
'aina.We are the kuieana. Itwas given to us, then please respect us forwho we are.
You make these committees, please think in your mind, how do we serve the kanaka
maoli which you have a justobligationto protectand to solidifythatour rightsare taken
care of.
And you know, what people don'tunderstand iskanaka's take care ofeverybody. Look
intoour governance. In our governance you findpeople come first.Congress comes
second. People are important,not money. We are the only societythat livewithout
money and we thrived. So for me, when we do these things please understand that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 98
I'm not tryingto make troubleor anything,but truthistruth
truth,I'm kanaka maoli,yeah, Iam a citizenof the Kingdom of Hawaii and Iclaim that
because I'm able to do so through the acts of your Congress. Thank you.
And Igoing speak the
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you very much. Members, questions. Idon’tsee any hands, Idon't
see. Thank you very much. May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisJunya Nakoa. To be followed by Albert Perez.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-151, 22-154, & 22-155:
Resolution No. 22-162: and Committee Report Nos. 22-47. 22-55, 22-56, & 22-57):
Howzit, you guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes we can.
MR. NAKOA; Hello. Okay, Igotta check cause it'sa, thismy nephew's earphone, Iwhen
stealurn from him. Okay, howzit. Okay, Igoing talkabout,talkabout plentyitems,I
going take allthree minutes. Nah, only joking, I am only joking. Okay 22-55, the
County employee work remote, remotely. Eh, you know what, brah, that'swhat we
doing now yeah. We doing this,thisnew Bluetooththing,the Bluejeans thing,buggah
work good so I going support um, yeah. You guys can do the same, do the work
wherever and you guys can stillbe very,very,very do an awesome job. Okay, shoots.
Okay, next one 22-155. Okay, the Directorof Water Supply, cause they going do one
reportyeah, today. And likethe sistahwas saying today yeah, no only go read the
water meters and allthatkind stuff,go check forthe surface water likethat. You know,
we justwhen deal withthat,inthe Lahaina one, atthe State level.Yeah, atthe,forthe
West Maui and we learnplentylikethat. So make sure the Water Department-
CHAIR LEE; Junya we're having troublehearing you. Can you turnoffyour video? Turnoff
you video please, then, then we can hear you. Ihope.
MR. NAKOA Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, say something.
MR. NAKOA: Chair,can you hear. Hello,hello.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 99
MR. NAKOA: Alright.Sorry, see the buggah junk. Okay, where was, yeah, so the Water
Supply do the rightthing cause, you know, likeUpcountry and West Maui, we, we
gotta,we gotta watch how we use our water eh, likethat. So we got to make sure we,
we know what water and how much water we using. But you know, the hotels,the
hotels over here, oh boy, nice the pool,fillup the pool. They watering the sidewalks.
Yeah, so get the Water Department for do theirjob. Okay, and then, okay thatone
pau.
Okay 22-162, the Crossroads. Brah, you know, how many people gettingkickout of
the, their stuff cause the owners raising the rents, yeah likethat. That's what
happening over here. And ithink you guys was talkingabout purchasing thisbuggah
maybe, Idon'tknow. Uh, Ithinkmore betterpurchase thisbuggah insteadof stupid,
stupidhoteldown here inNapili.Yeah, more bettah. And then fightthatguy inNapili.
So yeah, please go take care that one cause that one you going get,you going be
taking care of the people that'sworking, hardworking people of Lahaina,and thatcan
affordthathousing. So please ifyou guys going purchase anything,go purchase that
buggah. Cause thatone, thatone we know what going be and what,what, who going
take care of and all this stuff.
Okay, okay, now thislightingone, yeah, thislightingone. Ithinkyou guys get two
items yeah, the number, the 154 and 47, yeah. So IthinkIget likesixminutes,but I
not going use sixminutes. Igoing make fast. Okay, the lighting,you know, when I,
you guys know already Iwhen go tryhelp out with the filmindustry,yeah. And when
every time they went to use the lights,they had, you get the DLNR plus one guy, one,
one guy or ladythatknow about the,the birdsthat,thatwe tryingto protect.And so
...talkstoryabout the lights,Iwish Iwhen, Ido thatbut atthattime Iwas onlyworried
about COVID.
But Ithinkthatwe got to get more educated about them. But withthe,what you guys
when writealready and you guys when work hard on urn alreadyand allthatstuff,you
guys can pass urn because you guys get choke exemptions, you know, forthe Police,
the FireDepartment. And you know, the kine,allthatkindstuff,get choke. Inot,Inot
going read them all.But yeah, and you know, so get exemptions thatgoing help out
with thatthing.
And then, you know, you get the kine,the guys thatcome infrom Parks and Public
Works, oh, my god. Okay, Parks,okay, you guys know 1playsoftball.Oh, 1used to,I
cannot run anymore. But 1coach baseball,yeah and so Icoach baseball.And you
know, how the braddah was talkingabout the lightsand the ballgoing inair,baseball
going inthe air.The lightsisallhigh,high,high,high inthe air.The buggah no, the
buggah not likefence levelor sixfeetlikejunior... the buggah high.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 100
So ifyou hitthe bailthat high,okay of course you going have to wait littlewhile,but
when the thing come down inthe light,you can see urn rightaway. You stillnot going,
you not going get hurt,you not going to get hurt. Okay, you stillgoing, you stillgoing,
you stillgoing catch the ball.And ifyou miss the ball,your era. No blame, no blame
the lights,no blame the lights.And even ifthey put one, one shade thingon top,ifyou
directurn inthe rightway, the thinggoing be good. So, yeah, the baseball one, poho
that excuse that one.
And then anyway, I know they, they was saying they when spend $4 milliondollars
even before thisbillcame up. The Lahaina, inLahaina parks over here, inour Lahaina
parks, they when change allthe lights,allthe lightson the one park thatwe no use.
So you, you go ask the public,the Parks how much time the lightshas been used ...
and never use.
But you look at allthe,you look at the baseball park. I'm there every day, the buggah
allbuss up. The fence is,the kids running through the fence to go catch one home
run,they going get hurt. Yeah, you talkabout safety issue,that'sthe kind stuff.The
dugouts, the dugouts, allthe fences, the backstops, allthat kind stuff,you talkabout
safety issue,who, Igive you a list.The new guy from the ...Lahaina ... thatbuggah
going get one ear full.Ikind of when warn him. Ikind of when warn him. So yeah,
the lightsisnot the issue again.
What else,but yeah, then, Isorry,but Yuki Lei,you like,you like,you know when the,
get one testifiertestifyingabout... no go harass them ifthey going make money from
urn. You know, they,they,theyjusttestifyingon thisthing.Ino hear you talkingabout,
talkingto the developers when they testify.Why cause you going make money offof
this . . .
CHAIR LEE: Junya, Juyna, get back to the subject.
MR. NAKOA: That is the subject,the lighting.She brought itup. Imake. I'm using what she
when bring up.
CHAIR LEE: Iknow, let'stalkabout the lightingor whatever else.
MR. NAKOA: Okay, okay, but she the one when talk.Okay and then, yeah, so now allthis,
you know, allthese departments coming up now. Where they was earlier,when you
guys was talkingabout urn in committee. Ihearing thatthey was notifiedabout um.
Ihearing thatda kine,and then how come they no make the effortforgo check out the
Big Island. I would have. You know what I mean. So I say pass thisbillas is,as
written,as itisrightnow cause get plentyexemptions insidethatbuggah thatgoing.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 101
going make itenough time to make the,get the rightlights.Okay, shoots, Ipau. Sorry
Istay piss off.
Okay, 22-151, what isthat,oh the East Water Authority.Okay, again you get two, two
items,two numbers, two items on this. Okay, Sandy Baz, he came out here and he
when talkinbehalfofthe Mayor. Yeah, and, to,but he was saying about thisthingthat
he going,they,the,he speaking inbehalfofthe Mayor, thathe,they support Mahi Pono
controllingum and not the people. Oh my Lord,and the guy, and the guy issaying he
forthe people, huh. Jesus Christ.And to tellyou the truth,Icallhim guy the absentee
mayor cause he's never around, he's never around, the guy. Ifhe reallywanted forbe
here, he should be here. And ifSandy Baz can do um remotely, and not be there
physically,the Mayor could have done um, he could have done that.You know what
Imean. ...likeme use the phone and do um.
But the,the thing is,give the people the rightsto vote firstabout, on them. And itis
almost like what Yuki and Alice was talking about, you guys likehear from the
community, you know, about the Greg Brown house. Try listentothe community about
thisissue,okay. The, the people, how much people when testifyforthe water being
controlledby the people. And the only people who saying thatshouldn'tbe controlled
by the people and by Mahi Pono, isthe Mayor's Administration.So listentothe people.
Okay, guys, listento the people. People istalking,listento them. Cause the State
when listento the Lahaina people when we when testify.Now the County Council
should be listeningto the people when we testifyat thislevelcause thisis very
important. Listento the people. Okay, yeah, Ipau with those two.
Okay now 22-57, submission .. . yes . ..planning commissioners. Itellyou ...but
you know what Imean cause when they testify,they testifyand then they ask forthe
recommendation of the Planning Department, okay. This isthe department thatwhen
screw us over at thisillegalhouse, illegalhotelover there,down here. So having one
planning commission from each district,and I going tellyou thatdistrictdon'tknow
nothing about Lahaina, likehow we know. And 1bet you ifwe do each district,thatone
commissioner from district,that only going concern Lahaina, Ibet you plentyLahaina
people going step up to the plate. But rightnow they no likego step up intothe
commissioner thingand forme, 1gottago deal with Kiheiforgo,go trypass thiskind
and what not. Plus 1got toget appointed by the Mayor firstand you know, thatguy he
not going appointme fornothing.So likeIsaid,the planningcommissionersdo um by
the districtbrah, cause we going speak, we going speak for our, our, our, our
community.
So and ifallthe guys thatgrumble to me every place Igo, Igoingtellthem stepup and
they jointhe commission too. And then again probably make the thing,commission
when we ailpau work likeat6:00 so everybody can listen,and notthe kind9:00 inthe
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 102
morning when nobody can listenbecause they allat work. So, and yeah, again, and
that'sthe other one that,inbehalfof the Mayor, Sandy Baz said thatthey no, they no,
they no agree withthat. Uh, Iwonder why, Iwonder why? Try look at the,the jam up,
the jam up with the Greg Brown one. yeah. That's what going happen again. And
yeah, okay, brah, Ipau, Iwhen finishurn. Shoot.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, questions, questions. Well, you were so good nobody has questions.
Thank you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA: .. .ican add some more. Okay, you guys have a good one.
CHAIR LEE; Bye, you too.
MR. NAKOA; Yessah, gotta go practicenow.
COUNTY CLERK; . . .testifierisAlbert Perez, followed by Keisa Liu.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151; and Committee
Report Nos. 22-47, 22-52. 22-56. & 22-57;
Hello,am Inext? Hi, I,yeah, Ihad my sound down, sorry. Hope you'realldoing well
inthislong day. I'lltryto keep itshort. The firstone Iwant to testifyon ison my own
behalf,and thatwould be the,the two lightingbills.So, you know, 1generallysupport
the bills,although I'm not familiarwiththe details,but Ido have something that1think
1want to contributeand that isthe knowledge of the lightingbusiness,which Iwas in
forseveralyears. Ican tellyou thatthe industryisverycompetitive.People are always
going to conventionstoget the latestinformationon the latesttechnologies.So Iguess
my message isthatcompetitivebusinesses willbring inwhatever isindemand.
And likewith plastics,the ones who may resist,the ones who resistthe change first
are kind of invested inwhatever was acceptable before. But ifthe County leads inthe
rightdirection,they willadapt,they willrespond and we'llallbe betteroff.So that'sall
1 wanted to contribute. My probably totalof maybe about eightyears experience in
lighting.
So now I'dliketo get to Bill82. On behalf of Maui Tomorrow, and thisisapartments
in heavy industrial.We continue to urge the Council to filethisbill.Although we
support creatingthe opportunityto livealong Kaahumanu corridor,thissets a bad
precedent and unfortunately,it'salso one more instance of not paying attentiontothe
community plans thatcitizenshave put theirheart and soulinto.So on page 59 ofthe
Wailuku-Kahului Community Plan, the definitionof heavy industrial,itsays thisisfor
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 103
major industrialoperationswhose effectsare potentiallynoxious due to noise,airborne
emissions or liquiddischarges. Apartments are not listedin thisdefinitionfor good
reason.
So what's being proposed in thisbillwould requirea community plan amendment to
amend that definition.Would that require that the billbe sent back to the planning
commission? Ithink itshould and in respect of the community. Unfortunately,as often
happens, an attempt at a shortcut ends up taking more time in the end. The
appropriate route isto amend the community plan,change the zoning forthatparcel,
not allthe parcels,but that parcel,change itto another districtthat'smore appropriate
then heavy industrialinsteadofchanging the zone tofitthe need and affectingallthese
other parcels. Otherwise, as Imentioned at committee, we can end up withapartments
at the Maui Electric site next to Kealia Pond. Then thatwould serve as justificationfor
more urban uses inthe ag land next door. So thisbillhas a realdanger ofcontributing
to urban sprawl.
Ialso testifiedthatallowingapartments inindustrialzone iscontraryto the findingsof
the Title19 zoning code audit,which the County paid good money for.That approach
does not support industrialbusinesses because they can'tcompete with otheruses,
so they get chased out of the industrialareas and moved to outlyingareas,and they
also contributeto urban sprawl and higher infrastructurecosts. So we urge you tofile
thisbilltoday and get startedon a good billthatrespectsthe community'splan,and I
said community's plan specificallybecause that'stheirplan. And a billthattargetsthe
need at Kaahumanu corridor instead of this blanket thingthatappliestothe entirezone.
Iwillmove on tothe regionalPlanning Commission's, 22-57. Maui Tomorrow supports
this Charter amendment. All of our communities in Maui County deserve to have
decisions that are made about their communities in a way thatissensitivetothe actual
conditionson the ground. We're growing, you know, the County isgrowing and it's
time forgovernment to adapt. It’stime to make sure thatwe'reequallyrepresented.
Many, many times, the Maui Planning Commission has made decisionsthat are
basicallytone deaf.
Iremember clearlywhen almost everyone inSouth Maui testifiedagainstapprovalof
the Maui Coast Hotel in the most touristcongested part of Kihei. The projectwas
approved. Another time a planning commissioner actuallysaidthatKiheiwas meant
fortouristsso residentsshouldn'tbe complaining. This kindof stuffismuch lesslikely
to happen ifit'syour neighbors who are making the decisions,so pleasesupportthat
Charter amendment.
Finally,I'mgoing to go into22-151, which isthe East Maui,sorryit’sthe Maui County
Water Authoritywith the East Maui Community Regional Board. We thinkthisisa
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 104
good amendment, the 22-56, and it'stime for Maui County to take controlof itsown
water resources. I'vesaid itbefore, but I'llsay itagain, having public water supply
pending on privatewater systems ispoor publicpolicy,and itplaces the publicat the
mercy of decisions thatare based on what's best forthe company, not necessarilythe
public interest.
Iwon't go through the whole thingagain, but you know, the watershed health isreally
critical.It'snot gettingthe attentionitdeserves. A water authorityoperating inpursuit
of defending the publictrustcould spend more attentionon that,which isgoing to be
betterforallof the users, includingMahi Pono and anybody else who wants to use the
water for agriculture.Or ifthe company gets sold likeitdid in2018, we have a whole
new period of uncertainty,while we hope that the new owner willhave our best
interestsinmind. So Water Authoritywould prevent that situationfrom happening.
Iwant tosay,though, thatit’sreallyimportantthatthe employees ofEast Maui Irrigation
who know the system best,it'sgoing to be importantforthem to be reliedon and hired
for theirexpertise. But the authorityand the regional board would also need to work
closelywith invasivespecies experts and others who can help place a higher priority
on restoringthe watershed thatprovides the water inthe firstplace.
And the same goes forotherareas of Maui County thatmay choose to establishtheir
own community regionalboards. Ilikethiscurrentsolution,so thank you forproposing
that Councilmember Sinenci. Water forserious ag users can continueto be provided
and balanced with in-stream uses such as kalo growing that have priority.These
decisions would be made transparentlyinstead of in a corporate boardroom. And I
thinkI'vesaid everythingat leastonce, so I'llstop.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. No questions.Thank you, Albert.
MR. PEREZ; Okay, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier,next testifierand then we're going to take a 10 minute break.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Keisa Liu.
(testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-151: Committee ReportMS. KEISA LIU
No. 22-56. and Resolution Nos. 22-166 & 22-168L
thisisprettyfun,you guys are here. I'm here to testifyon fourthingsEveryone . .
today, CC 151, CR 22-56 and Reso 22-166 and 168. And, and forgiveme as it'sgoing
to be a littlebitdifficultforme to say what IthinkIneed to say when itcomes to CC 151
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 105
and CR 22-56, because Ithink itmight be weird to say, which isIdon'tthinkwe have
the rightpeople inthe room when itcomes to talkingabout what we should do with our
water. Idon't know how to say thiscorrectly,and Ithink Imight offend people, but I'm
sorry,but Ijustdon'tthink,Ihonestly thinkthe kanaka maoli should be the only people
in the room when itcomes to the water, their water, theirland. And regardless of the
factthatAmerica ishere, Ithinkmaybe they should have the biggest say, ifnot allthe
say inwhat we do with our water. So that'sallIhave to say about that.
The reason why I was kind of thinkingabout itwas because I was thinking about
Resolution 22-168, which is what I'llmove on to now. As a female, Ijust appreciate
that the Council has, has brought thisforward in support of women. And the reason
why isbecause Ithink at one point women were equal in the spaces as humans but
we became more and more of a commodity forconsumption. And when you become
a commodity for consumption, you don't need to have a choice and your voice isnot
valued.
Yesterday, I moderated a talkwith a Governor candidate and we were discussing
women's rights.And itwas reallyfunny because that person said, you know, well, I
believe that women should have a choice and should know alltheiroptions. And you
know, Iwas tryingto understand what thateven meant, and they kind of elaborated by
saying, you know, having abortions over and over again it'sjustnot good forthe body.
And itmade me pause a littlebitas someone who has not only had an abortion but
also had a child.So itmade me thinkwe're not having abortions over and over again,
and we're reallynot understanding what maternal health isifwe thinkthatwomen are
having abortions over and over again. That's not maternal health,it'snot women's
health,and that'snot listeningto women.
Which of course, made me think about the kanaka maoli and how we're not listening
to them when itcomes to theirwoman, theiraunty, theirmother, theirland,theiraina,
theirwater, theirwai. So Ijustwanted to take in a moment to express both of those
things at the same time because Iwasn't quitesure how else to do it.And there'sso
much more to be said about that,but I haven't quite got allthe words yet. But you
know me, Iknow how to findyou, and Iknow how to writevery long letters.So when
I have those words, Iwilldo that.
So I'm going to move on to the lastone, which is 22-166. And Ijustwant to ask if
anyone in Council has been houseless or unhoused or homeless withinthe lastthree
years. I'm going to assume none of you have, and I haven't either. But 1thought it
was interestinghow Iwas seeing more and more people on the streetspushing carts
of belongings or livingintheircars. And Ithought thatwas kind of interesting.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 106
And when there was a person who was moved from the illegalcamping at Kanaha
Beach area, to quote the resolution.Iasked them ifIcould walk with them, ifthey were
going to choose to move out of houselessness. And they agreed. So in November,
that'sreallywhen we startedthatprocess. Itisnow July 1,yeah, they'restillnot housed
permanently.
And Ineed you to understand something thatthisidea thatpeople are camping, and I
know I'm boring you a littlebit,but I need you to understand thatthisidea of camping
for recreationisdifferentthan having literallyno other option. And that'scontinuing,
regardless. I am talkingto people who are currentlyhoused and wondering where
they'regoing to get theirnext paycheck. And literally,they said to me, Ithink Imight
sleep in my van because Iknow Ican affordthat. Like,that’sa, that'sa person whose
housed rightnow and recognizing thatthat might be what they have to do.
So itdoesn't quite make sense to me though, thatthisisgoing to reallysolve the issue
thatwe have. And justso you know, that person who, you know, I'mwalking with in
houselessness, one of the things 1thinkwe can do istalkabout the bureaucracy of our
government and when itcomes to the funding or the paperwork and things likethat.
And that'swhere you guys can actuallyput some focus and some pressure because
that person has put indocuments to request forcertainthings thatthey need to get the
resources so thatthey can become housed. Four times forone document, fourtimes
we've put itin. We've done ittwice foranother type of document thatthey needed and
we're stillwaiting.That'swhat we're waitingfor.We’re not waitingbecause they'renot
interestedin being in housing.
And the worst partabout itisitgets so discouraging. I'mconstantlyreminding him and
tellingthem like,okay, it'sgoing to be okay. We can get you through this,like,you’re
going to be able to get housing and having to constantlytellthem over and over again
when the system itselfistellingthat person give up. So Ineed you guys to justkind of
understand thatthisresolutioncoming forward isn'treallyaddressing our real issues.
And ifyou as a governing body want to do some work, Iwould highlysuggest thatyou
look at the bureaucracy and how that'saffectingthe abilityfor people to get into
housing. Mahalo foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, questions. ...everybody. Thank you, Keisa. No questions. Next
person to testify.Oh yeah, Idid say that. Okay, how many more people do we have?
Okay, it's3:43 so 3:53 folks,meeting isin recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3:43 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 4:01 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT FOR COUNCILMEMBERS
JOHNSON AND KAMA, EXCUSED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 107
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting ofJuly 1,2022 please reconvene? Itisabout 4:01 p.m.
Continuing on with testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifieris Joyclynn Costa. To be followed by Jessie Kekiwi-
Aweau.
MS. JOYCLYNN COSTA (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-151 & 22-155:
Committee Report Nos. 22-56 & 22-57, and Resolution Nos. 22-166 & 22-168):
Aloha, Council. I'mgoing to tryto leave my video offto make sure there'sno bandwidth
ifthat'sokay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that'sfine.Thank you.
MS. COSTA: Mahalo. I'm here to testifyon 22-56 and 151, also 155, 57, 166, and a short
thing on 168. So I'llstartwith 168. Thank you forbringingthismeasure forward. Ijust
wanted to leave you with a short story. !had justcome back from the iwiconference
in Oahu and met with FirstNations people, and they talked about birthing.And what
they tellus iswhen a woman isready to give birth,they, they go to the earth,earth's
floor.Yeah, there'sno floorinthe,where they'regoing to give birth.It'searthen floor,
and they prepare a littlebowl withinthe dirtand the woman bears down and her water
breaks, and itfillsthat littleearthen bowl. And as she gives birth,the childfallsinto
thismuddy substance of water and soil.And as they cut the umbilicalcord, at this
point,that iswhere the childisno longer attached to the mother, but isnow attached
to that land and must be responsible and defend that land and allthatcomes with it.
So inour practice,you know, forus isthe piko thatgoes intothe soil.But how itrelates
to thismeasure can go eitherway, you know, with,with the futureofwhat we see today
forour children. More and more of our rightshave been and isbeing taken away. So
I'm not eitherforor against abortion. Ithink it'ssomething that needs to be spoken
around the table of women and that’sallI'm going to say about that.
my notes here, unlawful campingNumber 166, that would be, sorry 1 have a
unauthorized camping. And Iheard 1think itwas Councilmember Paltinasked ifthey
were also referringto those vehicles that park on the side of the road. And iwould,
you know, I'vehad my share of homeless people where I used to work. Since then
I'veretired,but the firstthing Iwould do iswalk up to them and ask them theirname
and they became a human being. And at that point,there was a relationshipand a
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 108
mutual respect for the most part. And I had no problem with them frontingthe
commercial establishment that I work as long as they were respectful,and yet they
were, feltsafe. So !think we need to do more measures on that.
As faras camping, what Isee on the side of the road iswhat Iconsider unlawful use
of a commercial activity,i.e.rentalvehicleto be made intoa bed and breakfast.And I
thinkthatismy concern ofwhat you might consider as camping on the side ofthe road.
Some of them islikeRVs where they have an entirehouse thatthey'redrivingaround.
It'sa mobile bed and breakfast. Others have a second story unitof sleeping,which is
a tent on top of a roof. So itbecomes very clever how they now can rent a vehicle
and not, and not be considered a bed and breakfast. And I think that's where the
problem liesa lotof times with thisunauthorized usage of public land. And I'llleave
that at there .
Number 57, districtPlanning Commissions. A littlebitof a slipperyslope. Ican give it
my thumbs up with reservationbecause Itrustthe Council thatwe have now. And, but
we not going to be here 20, 30 years from now. And what I'veseen in my lifetime,
60 plus years, is my demographic, my area of livinghas changed perspective. We
have so much speculators come inthatthe qualityof lifeand the amenities thereinhas
changed. Itmight be somewhat familiarand, and the same, but forme, it's,it'snot all
the same, not allthe same. And so that'swhy i have reservations,but to leave itto
one planning commission that I'veseen become so dysfunctional,I guess, Iwould
choose the second option,which isto be able to controland speak to where we live
and make that decision on our own.
So now Igo to,Idid 57, 66, 68. Did Ido 55 already? No, 155 isthe reportingofthe,
the water. Itotallyagree with Toni Eaton thatthere should be a reporton the surface
water. Idrive intoNahiku frequentlyand what Iwitness isthe State workers drivingby,
sittingin the back of the truck spraying poison on the side of the road, even where
there isriversand streams, even where there isfavoriteswimming holes. And Iwonder
thateffect,thatwater goes down to the ocean. There have been localfishermen that,
thatdive the coast and tell,tellme of how certainplaces the reefisdead. That'sbeen,
that has been over time, it'snot just today's events. And so we need to know,
especiallysince we're drinkingsurfacewater,what we're drinking.So it'scrucialthat
we do that. I'llleave that at that.
22-56, Iwould highlyencourage the usage of Hawaiian Kingdom Law, especiallythat
of 1839, 1859, 1864, because that'swhere the actual water rightscome from. Ialso
would liketo see the language of kuleana, lawai'a,and mahi'ai because that is a
specificpeople. We are not farmers,we're not localfarmers.We are mahi'ai,different.
And the resource that we're speaking of is not from today. Itwas created seven
generations ago forus to now manage ina way thatwillbe carriedto the next seven
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 109
generation. So ifthis measure can include the kuleana, mahi'ai, lawai‘a and the
concept of seventh generation,and, and each time there'sa new board that has to be
itsmission statement, Imight be able,you know, feeleasier about it.
There's also consideration about, because we have to take care of our people cause
we're going to be in drought. Idon'twant itto and likeagain I said that Itrustthis
Council,but once it'sinthe hands of the County, who's to say the next rogue Council
might come in and then startstamping allthese permits cause we got plentywater
coming out of east end. Or, you know, a bunch of people coming over from California
thatcannot farm anymore because they have no water, and now they'regoing to have
a farming concept thatfitsthe criteriaforusage.
And while we got plentywater coming out of East End, we don'thave plentyofwater,
we have water in East End. And when we have a drought, thatisnot the wellyou go
to justto alleviatethe drought. We need to findout what the problem isand cure the
problem. Just sucking more water out of East End is not the solution.It'sjust,it's
considered insanity.You know, to see the Central Plains being, being planted with
trees,where ifyou look along the road,trees do not grow.
So Ihad plentymore to say, but,you know, the Constitutionsays it's,it'sabout water
use. And that'sanother thing,Iwant to make sure and it'sclearthatit'sunder, it'sfor
water use and notthe water itself.The rightsare with the kanaka maoti,forthe water.
The usage and the,the ditches and allthe repairsthatneeds to be done, ifyou want
to take on that,then you know, the kuleanas would, would probably have no issue
assistingwiththatas well.But itlackssome language, butwithreservations,you know,
Iwant to see iton the ballot.The sad part isthe kanaka maoli have lostso much faith
with so much injuryand loss already, Idon't know how many vote to be able to put
theirvoice on there. So I pray that it’llaffectthem to come by and voice theirtheir
opinion. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions, Members. Isee no questions. Thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: The next testifierChair, is Jessie Kekiwi-Aweau. To be followed by David
Dorn.
MS. JESSIE KEKIWI-AWEAU (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-151):
Aloha mai kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 110
MS. KEKIWI-AWEAU: Itoo,willleave my video offso that Idon'tget the jibber-jabberingthat
went on. But my name isJessie Kekiwi-Aweau and Iam in support of the East Maui
Community Water Authority. Iam a linealdescendant and a kanaka maoli of Ghana
Kauamo and Ghana Kekiwi,who has had many generations,and we have been loi
kalo mahiai,we have been gatherers from mauka to makai. Our family has seen many
changes inthe stream flows and ithad harmed and damaged many of our crops, our
stream life,and our ocean lifewhen the water was diverted away from us 100 percent.
We willnot or cannot allow any foreign corporation or any corporation to do thisto us
again. Many of my kupuna have startedthisfightfor returningof the water. Many of
them have died. The next generation isfinallyseeing the water being returned and a
lotof our, not a lot,but some of our younger farmers are returningto the loito open up
the,to open up more kalo.
I'm sorry ifIoffend anybody with what Ihave to say, but Ibelieve thatour water come
from Crown Lands and ke Akua has given us thiskuleana, responsibilityto malama,
malama ka wai, ho‘i ka wai, take care of our waters, return our waters and manage.
We are not here to take allof the water, we are here to share. But I believe that the
kuleana of the water should go back to the kanaka maoli. And I mahalo everybody
who came out to testifyon thisbehalf. Mahalo to Chairperson Shane Sinenci for all
you do for our East Maui residents. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have
the next testify,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is David Dorn. To be followed by Mr. Sam Small.
MR. DAVID DORN [testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee Report
Nos. 22-47, 22-55, 22-56. 22-57, & 22-59: Resolution No. 22-162 & 22-168, and Bill
No. Ill (202211:
Hello,my name is David Dorn testifyingas myself. I support 22-47, 22-151, 22-57
22-162, 22-55, 22-162, BillNo. 111, 22-59, and 22-168, just incase 1get cut off.
1support number 22-47, protectingseabirds from outdoor lighting.A lotof people talk
about the cost of conversion, but what does itcost to replace an extinctspecies? It
seems likea few testifiershave done some Google searches while some have cited
single studies for a single non blue lightingsystem on a single species. We callthis
type of superficialresearch as confirmation bias. The actual scientistsare clear that
artificiallightsinMaui County regularlyattractand disorientHawaiian petrel's,...storm
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 111
petrels,. . . shearwaters as they navigate between the ocean and nesting colonies
resultinginfallout,injury,death.
And we need to do betterto protectendangered species, seabirds and other wildlife.
This billwilldo that,. . . Federal wildlifeagencies are charged with helping to prevent
these species from going extinct,and they recognize artificiallightattractionposes an
ongoing threatto species survivaland recovery. They outlinethe best practicesisto
minimize lightattraction.This billdoes that and gives our endangered seabirds and
wildlife the best chance of survival.
With regards to 56 and 151, I support item 22-151, for the creationof Maui County
Water Authority.Water isthe most important issue. Itisour most precious resource.
We cannot give exclusive power of our lifesustainingwater resources to a private
Canadian for profitbusiness entity.Isupport the Charter amendment to establishthe
Maui County Water Authority that would include an initialEast Maui Community
Advisory Board to manage the East Maui Watershed to deliverwater to both Upcountry
and Central Maui, plus have the potentialforother community boards forWest Maui,
Na Wai Eha, Molokai , etc. 22-151 is better than CR 22-56, which would only be for
East Maui. Although a lotof people gave great testimony on 22-56, but Ithinkitequally
applies to both that universal testimony of the importance of creating this water
authority.
Item 22-57, Isupport the creationof a regionalPlanning Commissions. To establish
planning commissions for all County plan areas on Maui and dissolve the Maui
Planning Commission. We need more localrepresentationand localexperience inour
planning process, especially in my area of South Maui. We've seen time and again
the County commissioners are out of touch with thispart of Maui and tend to totally
ignore the local issues and dismiss the testimony of local residents. This lack of
empathy and experience isleadingto a degraded South Maui watershed and repeated
bad planning decisions. Examples include buildinghotels in wetlands and stream
beds, buildingaffordablehousing in notorious flood zones.
Item 22-162,1 support the purchase of Lahaina Crossroads buildingso we can support
the vulnerable residents and prevent theirevictions. Maui County needs to acquire
and maintain an inventoryof affordablerentals.This isthe best investmentforcapital
and isa turnkey solution.
I also support item number 22-55, regarding telecommuting for County employees,
allow telework and alternate work schedules. We need to keep people offthe streets
and commuting unnecessarily.Alltelecommuting should be encouraged inallsectors,
wherever possible. There's been plenty of good testimony on that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 112
Bill.No. Ill, with the supporting a cesspools conversion fund and the loan thatthat
would require. We need to help people convert to safer. ..systems. We need to do
thisto help maintain our watersheds and to improve the quality,qualityof groundwater
and to prevent stormwater contamination and the resultingstormwater or ocean
pollution.
Isupport 22-59, to establishCounty residency requirement forboard, commission, and
committee members, and Isupport 22-168, supportingour keiki,wahine, and ohana in
response to the Supreme Court vote on overturning Roe vs. Wade. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Members, questions. Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Dorn. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Sam Small. To be followed by Nick Huntz.
MR. SAM SMALL (testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-56 & 22-57):
Okay, hi,I'm going to tryand keep thisbrief.Certainlyin support of the East Maui
irrigationamendment and creationofthatauthority.Certainly,you know, it'sallabout,
our community has matured and we have the abilitynow withinour community to make
these decisions for ourselves that have been abdicated to special business interests.
Mahi Pono does not deserve to be controllingthis water anymore and, and these
amendments that empower our community and empower the Council are very, very
important.
To the Charter, the Planning Commissions. Overblown Director'sdiscretionisthe
linchpinforso many of the problems thatwe bring you. Greg Brown isjustone of a
long listof abusive projectswhere the publichas sued developers and the County and
where the citizens have won. You know the list: Montana Beach, Olowalu, Palama
Drive, Kahoma Villages. Even a suit that is currently in litigationin Napilion Hui
Road E, where developer Hugh Farringtonwith cooperation of department directors
and Corporate Counsel, forced Chris Salem intoforeclosure by issuing the one and
only notice of intentto collectever sent to any property owners who have signed on of
one of the thousands of three lot or less deferral agreements. To teach him a lesson
islandstylethatquiteliterallyevictedhis,him and his familyfrom the home thathe
personallydesigned and builton Thanksgiving Day.
Director'soverblown discretionisthe linchpinof the abuse of power thatserves well-
connected developers, complicitdirectorsand whoever happens to be Mayor at the
time. That overblown discretion turns permit approvals into enforcement, permit
approvals and enforcement into a politicaltool. It'swhy there is such great disparity
between two differentdevelopers, both abusers of the system who get treated so
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 113
drasticallydifferent.Compare Greg, Greg Brown in Napilito Michael Baskin at the
Paia Inn. Both seem to be terribleabusers of County ordinances, yet Michael Baskin
is being persecuted with millions of dollars in fines and Greg Brown is being
desperately protected to the extent thatCorp. Counsel and the Planning Directorhave
repeatedly liedto thisCouncil.
Developers don'tlikesurprises.It'sa factthatcredibledevelopers want the County to
have firmand clearlydefined rulesinplace so thatthey can know what isexpected of
them from the beginning,and they can depend on evenly implied,appliedenforcement.
Corrupt developers prefer just the opposite. They rely on Director'sdiscretionso
payoffs can be made, and Ithinkwe can allagree at thispointthatpayoffs have been
made.
For several years now the Planning Commission has been proposing new SMA Rules
that wrongly give even more authorityto the directors.At a community meeting, I
asked Director McLean how itisthat the Planning Commission and not the Council
has the authorityto writethe rulesthatthey then oversee. Rules thathave the force
and effectof law. She toldme that it'sby the Charter and itwould take a Charter
amendment to change that.And ilooked intoitand she's right.
I'm sorry. Councilmember Paltin is wrong, the State does not mandate that SMA
authorityreside in Maui's Planning Commission. The State simply acknowledges the
authoritythat each County assigns through itsCharter. Honolulu's Charter assigns it
to the Honolulu CityCouncil. Our Charter each, says thateach planning commission
shallor the many, however many you create, shallact as the authorityin allmatters
relatingto Coastal Zone Management, all matters. That has been conveniently
interpreted to make them the ultimate arbiterof the enforcement of the rules and the
author of those rules. And those two things need to be separated intoday'sproposed
Charter amendment, so that it'syou, our elected legislatorsthat determine what has
the force and effectof law,not a politicallyappointed commission.
SMA Rules are currentlya Committee item waiting to be heard solelybecause Chris
Salem has worked hard both inside the Administration and on his own to fix this.
Please correct the Reso to fix this.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, questions.
Member Paltin,clarificationquestion. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: You know me, Chair,
CHAIR LEE: Iknow, that'swhy Iasked.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Small foryour testimony.
So to clarify,you don't want this resolution,you would rather a Charter amendment
saying that the Planning Commission, as, advises the Council in coastal zone
management, not that the Planning Commission has the authority in coastal zone
management. Isthatwhat you'resaying?
MR. SMALL: Ithink that’sthe thrust of it;however, Idon't know that there isthe timeframe to
create a new Charter amendment. And since we're so lateinthe process, the existing
Charter amendment needs to be modified to achieve, Ibelieve,what you justsaid that
the,thatthe rulemaking authorityneeds to go back to the County Council and thatthe
oversight, administration or enforcement stays with the individual planning
commissions. But the rulemaking needs to go back to the Council. I don't know that
there'senough time inthis,inthe schedule to,to,to do itany other way than by fixing
what's currentlyproposed.
CHAIR LEE: Was your question answered?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, itwas. I don't know ifthisproposal has
enough time either,though, because--
MR. SMALL: I don't. I don't know. Council Services can probably, you know, help you with
that.
CHAIR LEE: Any proposal has to be passed today on firstreading.
MR. SMALL Then amend ittoday. Talk to Council Services
problem and they can provide you language today to fixthis.
think they understand this
CHAIR LEE: Thank you foryour suggestion.
MR. SMALL: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,any more questions. Members? Ifnot,thank you again.
And may we have the next testifier,please?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Nick Huntz. To be followed by KallieKeithAgaran.
CHAIR LEE: Could you repeat the name.
COUNTY CLERK: Nick Huntz.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 115
MR. NICK HUNTZ (testifying on Committee Report No, 22-47):
Hello,I'mNick Huntz with LED Hawaii, and Iwas justcallingor callingintoday totestify
for the lightingordinance bill.I did speak about a week and a halfago, and just a
couple of the things that I had commented on was that it's,the decisions that Maui
makes today thatwilldefine what the,the nightskylineand what the cityand the island
looks likeformany years and decades to come.
And Ijustwanted to clear up a few things that Iheard on some of the other testimonies
throughout the course of the day, and that isthatthese fixturesare readilyavailable
today forany projectsthat,you know, were to be inthe works rightnow. Iknow there
was some questions about the Johnson Controls lightingprojectand how itwould apply
to the actual Maui County upgrade and retrofit.And there's reallyno reason that
anything should slow down because we've been supplying these on the Big Islandfor
many years now as well as other regular white lightsthroughout the State of Hawaii.
So whether Maui chooses to go with the lessthan two percent blue lightfixturesinthis
ordinance, and sortof adopt what the Big Islandhas done, or they don't,you know the
fixturesare readilyavailabletoday.
There was some questions from the Parks and Recreation or comments, Iguess the
technologies available,ready to be implemented, but no one's going to implement it
untilthere'sa demand for it.But ifit'ssomething thatthisCouncil and the people of
Maui are serious about, we’re ready to go on thistoday, tomorrow, whenever, you
know, you guys would choose to,to pass the bill,ifit'swhat the people decide thatthey
want to do.
And so we justwanted to offerour support and our expertise in the work thatwe've
done on the Big Island in any way thatwe can forthe people of Maui.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,Members, questions.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Just a realquick question. Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Huntz.
So do you liveon the Big Island?
MR. HUNTZ; Ido, Ilive,Ilivedon the Big Islandfulltime from about 2011 through 2016, and
now as my company isexpanded, Isplitmy time between Oahu and the Big Island.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay, great. Well, thank you forbeing here.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 116
MR. HUNTZ: We've got officesinboth locations.Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Appreciate you being here and givingyour expertise. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next testifier
please?
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifiersKailieKeithAgaran. To be followed by Clare Apana.
(Councilmember Johnson returnedto the meeting at 4:32 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Repeat.
COUNTY CLERK: KailieKeithAgaran
CHAIR LEE: Next.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, our next testifierisClare Apana.
CHAIR LEE: There you are. Clare,it'syour turn. We can'thear you. We cannot hear you.
You're muted on her side.
MS. CLARE APANA (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-47):
How's that?
CHAIR LEE: Perfect.
MS. APANA: Yeah, okay. Okay, thank you very much forhearing so many testimonies.
MS. KALLIE KEITH AGARAN: I'msorry,thisisKailieKeithAgaran. Iapologize,Ididn'thave
the rightbutton.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay we'llcallyou up, we'llcallyou afterthisothertestifier.
MS. APANA: No, Chair, it'sokay. Okay, you want me to go.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 117
MS. APANA; Okay, thank you. I'mjustgoing to testifyon one thing and that'sthe lightingto
protectthe seabirds. Iseriouslycannot understand how we could not do some simple
measures to counteractthe damage thatwe have actuallydone to the birdsby our own
existence. You know, itseems likeit'sso simple, and yet there'sso much opposition
to,to being able to simply fixlightingfixturesthatwillprobably be, in the end, save
labor.
Who speaks foranimals who lose theirhabitatand safetybecause we have to livehere
and take over the aina. Who speaks forthem, you know. So simple, not,thisisnot
political,thisisjust a no brainer. It'sso, it'sso logical.I hope that you willsee that,
that we're not always able to fixthings. We're not always able to make things better.
But thisissomething thatcan be fixedand something thatwe can do. They've been
doing iton the Big Island for allthose years and from the testimony I'veheard they
haven't had any problems. Why would we anticipatehaving problems? I.I liketo
speak, you know, Itend to speak forthings thatdon'tspeak forthemselves. Iliketo
speak for the seabirds. Do the small fixand letthem liveand be safe. Undo what
we've done by our intrusionintothe environment.
Mahaio, Council. Mahalo, so much. Thank you foryour service,I reallyappreciate
you guys. And ifyou could, Iwish you would make one more meeting so thatthese
meetings don'thave to have so many items on it.Then you could group them together
and itwouldn't be so confusing for us to tryto,to figureout what we're going to talk
about. And I'm sure it'sconfusing foryou. So that's,that'smy two cents. Thank you
very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. So you callup allthe other testifiersthatcame up and you tellthem
the same thing. Okay, any questions forClare? Ifnot,thank you very much.
MS. APANA; Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifierisKallieKeithAgaran.
MS. KALLIE KEITH AGARAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-47):
Good afternoon. Madam Chair and Councilmembers. I'vebeen on thiscallsince 8:15
thismorning but didn'tknow Ihad to sign up to testifyinthe chat untilabout noon. So
that'swhy I'mhere. But Ihave to say it'sbeen a wonderful experience listeningto you
and allthe testifierscoming through, regardless of theirpoint of view. I am really
heartened by ...experiencing inthismeeting today as they approach, ofthe Council,
which Ihad my suspicions about but has sortof not followed much. So Iwant to thank
you allforthat.And allthe wonderful testifiersI'velearned so much from today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 118
So isubmitted testimony about the lightingbillon behalf ofthe Hongwanji, allfour Maui
temples. Iam a board member of the Kahului Hongwanji Temple and lastweek we
learned to our surpriseabout the lightingbilland so we did a quick littleconference by
email and I'mhere to reporton thattoday. And basicallyto ask, well,firstof all,before
!go there,we're absolutelyinsupport of lightingto protectpeople. It'sjustno question,
itfollows our ethics, and I'vewritten about that in my testimony.
However, we do have, I, I've identifiedtwo issues that concern me. One is that
between myself,my husband, my mother-in-law,who's been a politicalactivist...most
of us have been alive,almost and my sister-in-law,none of us have heard anyone in
the Filipinocommunity or in the Hongwanji community who were aware of thisstuff.
And so the concern I have about that isthat ifa billpasses immediately and then this
Central Maui or whatever communities that don't know about italready startto hear
about itand hear that they'regoing to have to spend money, these are generally not
well-off,eithercommunity organizations,small businesses or families.There's going
to be an uproar, I'm afraidthere'sgoing to be an uproar ifthey thinkthat they haven't
been included and itsort of looks like that to me rightnow. And I'mnot blaming anyone
for that,Ican understand how ithappened.
But Ithink itneeds to be rectifiedbefore you pass the bill.And justinthe interestof
keeping everything on track and smooth without a bunch of pilikiabetween that,you
know, quote environmentalists and locals. So that'sone concern. And I have a
suggestion inthat regard, and itisthatyou consider maybe takinga couple of months
to produce a YouTube video thatyou can advertise inradioand socialmedia and send
around that educates people about the bill,what's required, what willbe either
exempted or grandfather, and so on. And, and, you know, gives them a chance to
come inand talk.And and thatway, Ithink itstands a much betterchance of passing
smoothly withouta lotof disruption.So that'smy inputforthat.
With regard to the Hongwanji's,obviouslythe Bon Dance isa concern. I'veheard that
answered how the lightingwillaffectthe Bon Dances themselves, I'm not worried
about. But there is another issue that hasn't been brought to your attentionregarding
the Hongwanji's and I'lluse Kahului as my example. We are the newest and most
recentlybuilttemple of allthe four on Maui. We, we were completed inthe early70s,
so about 50 years, that'salready very old.
And some of you may remember that our campus isvery, it'srelativelyshortacross
the front,about 90 feet and about 300 feet back. So it'sa very deep, somewhat narrow
campus. And rightnow, allof our buildingsare prettymuch originalequipment, allof
the electricityisoriginalequipment. And it'sour facilitiesand our parking lightsthat
are going to be the compliance issue. And I know our parking lightsare very high. I
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 119
don't know how high, Idon'tknow ifthey fityour, but that isthe leastof the issues.
The real issue is the ricketyelectricityand allof those lightsthat need replacing
anyway. Now thatwould allbe fine. Ithinkwe could handle that ifthat'sallwe faced.
But rightnow, Kahului Hongwanji cannot, and this has been going on for years,
probably sixor eightyears,almost allofthe time that I'vebeen a member there,which
is 11 years now. We have been unable to get County permits or we have to be sortof
snuck infor littlerepairsthatwe need to make because we do not have a firehydrant
thatcan servicethe back buildings,the buildingsinthe back of the campus-
CHAIR LEE; Kallie,Kallie.
MS. KEITH AGARAN: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Could you please conclude ina minute? Thank you.
MS. KEITH AGARAN: Okay, what I'msaying iswithoutthatfirehydrant,we can'tget a sump
pump, which you need forfloodmitigation.We can'tcomplete our,any kind ofelectrical
work. We can'teven undertake it.So that'sa huge expense thatwe're tryingto work
on, but it’sgoing to hamper us to have to do that. And so three years might be kind of
short for us on this . . . and we can handle that. But Ithinkthey'regoing to be similar
problems inmost of the other Hongwanji's.
The lastthingIwant to say isthatIthinkifthe bill,the Council,or somehow the County
can consider tryingto findgrant funding to help organizationsthat may have trouble
complying, thatthere'sprobably a lotof environmental money, general grantfunds and
Federal grant funds out there. And Ican'tofferto do much of thatlegwork, but Ican
certainlyconsult on it,Ihelp with those at Kahului Hongwanji. And Iwould liketo see
you folkslook at that inwhatever way you think appropriate to consider helping those
who willstrugglefinanciallyto comply. So with that.I'llconclude.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Members, questions. Ifnot,thank you, Kallie.Oh we have a question.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Chair. Good afternoon,Ms. KeithAgaran. With
regards to the Hongwanji's, have they submitted anything inwritingon the position,on
theirpositionwith thisbill?And if,if,can you get them to submit something inwriting
with their concerns.
MS. KEITH AGARAN; Sure, sure, sure, I can do that. I think they’regoing to be variable
between the temples, but in general, likeIsaid, Ithinkthere'swidespread support for
the bill.It'sjust a matter of how we're going to be able to comply. And I know that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 120
there'sone temple that'sgoing to be harder hitthan us financially,and that'sLahaina.
And of course, they’re near the ocean, so there will,Ithink ifyou guys can come up
with funding,some instances notjustforus, but forothergroups as well,thatmight be
helpful.But Iwillcertainlytalkto the groups and tryto get something to you. May not
be quick because we got to go through allfourtemples. Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
MS. KEITH AGARAN; Sure.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions? ifnot,thank you.
Madam Clerk.
MS. KEITH AGARAN: Thank you very much. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisSam Ahling Akoi. To be followed by Jordan Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Repeat the name.
COUNTY CLERK; Sam Ahling Akoi.
CHAIR LEE: He dropped. Next.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Next up would be Jordan Molina. To be followedby Noelani Ahia.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS JORDAN MOLINA (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-47):
Good afternoon, ismy audio alright?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you'regood.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS MOLINA; Thank you. My name isJordan Molina, I'm the
Directorwith Public Works testifyingon behalf ofthe Department regarding Committee
Report 22-47. The Department opposes the proposed billfor the unintended
consequences that willresult,and we recommend the billbe sent back to Committee
for further deliberations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 121
My writtentestimony which was sent to you alloutlinesthe consequences which we
anticipate,which includedelay electricalpermit approvals, particularlyas itconcerns
housing projectsin constructionand waiting permit approvals; the abandonment of
energy efficiencyprojects,notably the streetlightconversion projects,which willthrow
away millionsof dollarsthat could be going to more meaningful work to boost our
seabird populations;preventing emergency operations thatoccur at night,such as the
debris cleanups likewe did back in December from the storm events; and also our
challenges intryingto determine compliance with the requirements relatingto filtering,
nonreflectivesurfaces and blue lightcontent.
The billsets up the Department for failure, in our opinion, the billhas not been
sufficientlyconsult, the Department has not been sufficientlyconsulted with in
development of this bill,and there has been no interestin working through the
implementation challenges we willface. Ifthere is a desire to get the billrightand
ensure the Department's can ...policyto itsfullextent,the billshould be sent back to
the committee and allthe departments and property owners that have expressed
concerns should be provided an opportunityto work through the detailsof thisbill.
Further, Iwould recommend the Council consider followingthe process used for the
previous outdoor lightingamendments, which involve pilotprojects and objective
deliberationsby a collectionof industry,professional,environmental advocates, and
County departments. That concludes my testimony. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Molina, you were at the lastcouple of
committee meetings withthisand we did hear your input.But we didask you tocontact
the County of Hawaii and reach out to them forhow they managed to comply with the
ordinance. Have you done that?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS MOLINA: . . . extent, but i don't think we recognize the
differences between the two ordinances.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Have, have you talked to them?
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS MOLINA: Yeah, we've con, we've had meetings with their
trafficengineers as faras theirstreetlightingefforts.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, cause, you know, thatwould have been good to hear how
thatmeeting went. Iknow we. we asked you to do thatat the lastcommittee meeting
when we passed thisout and we did hear your concerns. We addressed some ofyour
concerns, so I'm a littlesurprised at thislastminute, you know, attackon the bill.But
that'sall.Thank you, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any other questions? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Molina. Next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Noelani Ahia. To be followed by Sam Ahling Akoi.
MS. NOELANI AHIA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee Report
No. 22-47: and Resolution Nos. 22-162, 22-166. & 22-168):
Aloha mai kakou. I almost forgot what itwas liketo stand at thisthing with this
microphone. It’sbeen so long, it'sgreat to see you all.I’mNoelani Ahia, thank you for
taking thislong day to receive everyone's testimony. It’svery much appreciated. So
I'm going to startwith 22-168. I'm infavor of thisresolution.I'm going to go kind of
quick because Iknow you’ve been through a lottoday.
22-162, the Crossroads Apartments, I'm infavor of this.Idon'tthinkthe County should
have to do this,but what’s happening is shameful and we simply cannot letmore
people be houseless ifthe County has an opportunityto do something about it.So I
fullysupport that.
22-47, the seabirds, Iabsolutely support this.We have to prioritizeour ecosystem, if
one part of our ecosystem goes out of balance, there are unintended consequences
for our entireecosystem. And our birds have been harmed fortoo long because of
human, human unnecessary luxuries.So I'm hoping thatthis,thisbillcan go through
today.
And then 22-166, I'm not saying that I support or I don’t support, but Ithinkthisbill
needs some clarification.Because when we're talking about unauthorized camping,
it'ssuper important thatwe clarifythe differencebetween touristswho come here and
camp or even residents who are renting out campervans to touristsversus residents
who are tryingto survivebecause they don’thave housing. Because a lot,thereare a
lotof people who are livingin theirvehicles,who are camping because they simply
don't have shelter.And it'sreallytheirlasthope.
And for me as a kanaka maoii, especiallywhen Isee kanaka out there on the streets
or camping, livingintheirvans, livingin theircars, it'sso, it'sso representativeof the
state of respect thatthe State of Hawaii does not have forkanaka maoii and thatthe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 123
United States does not have for kanaka maoli. We've been displaced fora 129 years
and forced off of our lands and then forced to live out of our cars. It’sshameful and it
shouldn't happen. So this billhas to be reworded to clarify,especiallyfor law
enforcement, that thisis not for residents.
And I understand that there are State laws that make sleeping inyour car illegalthat
have to be addressed. But I see this billas a way for law enforcement to further
criminalizekanaka and other unsheltered people inour community. And it'ssimply not
okay. Because what happens, there’s a whole cycle that happens. People end up
gettingticketsforthistype of thingand then they can'tget to courtand then they have
a warrant for theirarrest and they end up criminalized and in prison or they end up
owing fines and then they'redeeper and deeper in a hole that they simply cannot get
out of because the system does not provide the help that folksthink itdoes. So I'm
absolutely clearthat itneeds to be more clear. Ihope thatmade sense.
Okay, and then the very lastthing is22-151. Iabsolutelysupport puttingthison the
ballotas a Charter amendment and lettingthe people decide. I think given allthe
testimony and support, it'sprettyclear that the people want to end the plantationera
policiesand return the water to the people to manage in our best interestand not
corporate interests.Startingwith the kanaka ‘oiwiand as Aunty Joyclynn said it'svery
important thatwe include kuleana landowners, our mahia'i,and our lawai'a.These are
the folks that need to be on this board or commission or however it'slanguaged
because they have the 'ike,they're closest to the source, they'reclosest to the piko.
And those are, those are the folksthat need to have the highest kulana inthiskuleana
to manage our water to make sure thatwe can stop thiscycle of sufferingbecause our
aina has been sufferingand our people have been sufferingfor way too long. So
ola i kawai. Mahalo nui and a hui hou.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? Isee none, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our next testifierkeeps coming inand out so I'mnot sure ifhe's back
inyet. But Mr. Sam AhlingAkoi. And Mr. Akoi willbe followedby TerrillJames Kanealii
Williams.
MR. SAM AHLING AKOI (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151; Committee
Report Nos. 22-56 & 22-57; and Resolution Nos. 22-166 & 22-168);
Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 124
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. AKOI: Aloha kakou, County Council, County Council Chair. Mahalo forhaving me today.
Iwant to testify,my name isSamuel Ahling Akoi IV,I residein Kipahulu,Maui, Hana.
Linealdescendants, linealdescendants of Matapuupuu from Door of Faith,from Haiku.
Lineal descendant of Koolau. You know, it'sfunny how, how we hear allof thisjuston
and, and our native people out here, you know, tryingto protectour,our kuleana. But
!justwant to go run,rightpass through everything.
CC 22-151, 22-56, 22-57, ! fullysupport allof thiswith the best of my heart. Thank
you for,fordoing what you folksdo. I mean, Iknow we allhave our hands tied,our
kanaka maoli's,our lineals,you know, and you folkshere on the board justwant to FYl
to letallour people know, you know, that,hey, we allneed to unitetogether and we
need to persevere forthinGod's law. And to work with each other and to,to be a part
of,of this,thismovement, you know, so we can, we can have a voice and stuff,you
know, to,to protectour, our wai, you know, and not only our wai. We protectallour
six committees that is,is put forward onto us. You know, the kanaka maoli's,the
linieals,the, the Royal, Royal families. You know. I'm behalf here speaking on the
royaltyon my familyand Isupport inthiswith allmy heart.
And Ithank you allfor,fordoing what you guys. Mahalo Shane, for,forputtingthis
together. I'm sure we allcan get on the table,you know. I'mso excitedto get on the
table. And, you know, with allour expertise in the, in our culture,you know, to get
involved and so, so we can come to one, one agreement inhow we can manage and
how we can work together inmanagement. You know, it'sgoing up to capitalismand
all,you know, and back to the resource management, you know, from the mountain to
the ocean, you know. So we callthatthe ahupua'a system. So thank you very much.
I don'twant to take you guys, too much of you guys time,we've been here so long.
But mahalo ke Akua, mahalo to allof you. A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? No questions. Thank you very much. Next
testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris TerrillJames Kanealii Williams,followed by Kamalani
Pahukoa, who isthe lastone currentlysigned up to testify.
(testifying on County CommunicationMR. TERRILL JAMES KANEALII WILLIAMS
No. 22-151):
Aloha, can you folks hear me.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 125
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
MR. WILLIAMS; Aloha kakou. My name isTerhllJames KanealiiWilliams. I'mtestifyingon
CC 22-151. I,Iwant to echo what has been shared by Uncle Keeaumoku Kapu., Uncle
Kaniloa Kamaunu, Aunty Joyclynn Costa, and Noelani Ahia. I am testifyingas a
kanaka maoli, as a kuleana, as a linealdescendant of East Kuiaha, Hamakuaioa. As
the kanaka maoli we are the ones that have the water rights.
1don't.I,you know, alllastyear, Ishowed up to a lotof these County meetings, and I
know thatthatwas made very clearthroughout several meetings. And so thisCounty
Council is very, should be well knowledgeable . . . updates likeliveupdates of the
conditions of my riverspecificallyin regards to East Maui Irrigationand Mahi Pono's
impacts on the river.
My concern, of course, is Idon't have enough context regarding the leasing and this
billbecause of course I,Iwasn't at the table. Like a lotof us kanaka maoli who have
the water rightshave not been at the tableand we have not been invitedto the table.
We have not been given the opportunity to make the decisions regarding our water
that we are the ones that have the rightsto. We're, we're constantlyput to the side.
We are constantly,not only are we not allowed to the table,we're liketreated likedogs,
given the scraps of the water, ifwe're allowed to even get a trickledown our rivers.
I,I heard a lotof,you know, testimonies today, people saying our, our rightsto the
water, our rightsto the water, but everybody needs to understand thatas kanaka maoli
we have the firstrightand everybody has access to the water through our rights.But
our rightisnot,why should anybody else . . . We're the ones that constantly have to
suffer. We're the ones that have to conserve our water. We have to catch water when
we of course, itscodifiednot only in Hawaiian Kingdom Law, it'scodifiedinthe State
Law. There's no, there'sabsolutely no reason why any privatecorporation should be
having and monopolizing our water resources.
Not only is,is Mahi Pono, a multinationalcorporation. The, the public's,they’re . . .
partiallyowns Mahi Pono, likenot only was it,is ita corporationthat,a Canadian
corporation. But it'sa corporation of, produced by the Canadian government and
works inthe interestof the Canadian government. And so with that in mind, itboggles
me thatanother government, a Canadian government isable to monopolize and have
control of our, over our waters here in,on Maui. It'salready,it'salready bad enough
that the United States government has, and itspolicieshave completely mismanaged
our water for,for generations. Now we're also dealing with a second government
controllingour water.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 126
There's no reason for,for Mahi Pono and East Maui Irrigation,or A&B to,to attainany
leases or any, any water being shared with those corporationsanymore. It's,it'stime
forthatto end. It's,it'svery obvious. Imean, as faras likeimentioned earlierformy
river,all,allthatdocumentation isinthe County Council record already. You folkssaw
italllastyear.
My river'sdry stillyet at the hands of East Maui Irrigation.Right? And so it'stime for
us as kanaka maoli to have full and total control over our water again. I,I support
aha moku having a place and having representatives on whatever board is
established. The majority,however things turn out, the majorityof that board, of the
authorityshould have aha moku, should have representativesfrom each moku, lineal
descendants from theirahupua'a representingthemselves and theirwater rights.And
we understand thatthe water isnot justforour kalo,itsnotjustforfarming,but there's
an entireecosystem for mauka to makai within the riveritselfand each riverthat
depends on the water as well,allthe way down to the ocean.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Williams.
MR. WILLIAMS: ... is no relation . . .
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Williams,could you please conclude.
MR. WILLIAMS: ... isnot protecting... Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Could you conclude, please. No. you have a minute to conclude.
MR. WILLIAMS: Oh, I have a minute. Okay, okay, that'sgreat. So as Iwas saying there's
an entireecosystem withinthe riverthat us, as the kuleanas, our rightis meant to
protectthatecosystem. And so by our rights,forour. ..kalonotgettingthe water,the
water being divertedfrom us, not only isitdamaging us,but it'sliterallydestroyingthe
ecosystem mauka to makai, which ifthat'snot a concern forthe Council,then Idon't
know if,ifwe're justat thatpointwhere the water isjustabout money, or ifit'sabout
our survival,the survival of our entire environment that'saround us. I'm not too sure.
But I,Ihope thatthisCouncil reallytakes allthese thingsintoconsiderationand, and
isfinallyready to allow us as the kanaka who have the generationalknowledge,who
have the kuleana within our ahupua'a to manage our water. . . Because ultimately
we are the ones that are able to manage itproperly and know how much should be
shared out, when itshouldn't be shared out, and how it'sgoing to impact ailof us. And
so that'sallIhave to say fornow. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Members questions.
Member Yukimura, Sugimura. I'm gettingpunchy.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Long day.
CHAIR LEE; Punchy now.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So thank you very much foryour testimony. And Iguess
from what I'm keeping track,you're the fifthperson who today has come forward to
testifyabout the kanaka maoli and theirwater rights,which sounds likeyou're saying
isdeeper than thiswater authoritythatwe're talkingabout forour Charter amendment,
because that'spart of the,our government systems. Am Imisunderstanding?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Williams,did you hear the question?
MR. WILLIAMS: Can you repeat itone more time,sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: From, from today, today, Imean, you are the fifthperson
who has come up towards the end of our day talkingabout the rightsof the kanaka
maoli,maoli and Imay be misunderstanding, but justby listeningto your testimony as
wellas the previoustestifiers,itsounds likeyou'resaying thatyour rightsas a Hawaiian
is deeper than the Charter questions that are before us. And I,and I could be
completely wrong and please just correct me, that'smy clarifyingquestion.
MR. WILLIAMS: I'm,I'm not saying thatmy rightsas a Hawaiian are deeper. I'm saying my
rightsas a kanaka maoli are deeper, and it'sdifferent,yeah. And I'malso saying that
whatever the board makes itsdecision on, because I don't have control of the board,
right,or the,the Council, and what things move forward. Idon't have fullcontrolright,
that kanaka maoli should be inthose positions,particularlythe ones who have kuleana
to the places thatare inquestion, linealtiesto those areas.
And so like,forexample, to my knowledge, Idon't have, Idon'thave linealtiesto,for
example, Kipahulu, that Iknow of. So it'snot up to me to make a decision,even though
I'm kanaka maoli, it'snot up to me to make a decision on behalf of Kipahulu families
unless that iswhat they consent to. And the same would be forand in my moku, or
my ahupua'a, itcomes down to who has kuleana to what wahi, what area, what place
and those thingswe have records of those, of who has kuleana to where.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 128
We have, that aha moku has knowledge of who has kuieana to where and so aha moku
should be consulted,not justconsulted,but should actuallybe takingquiteof a lead,
in my opinion. But does thatanswer your question.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So you're saying to participate,and you would be. you
would be satisfied.Isthatwhat you're saying?
MR. WILLIAMS; I would want--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; You're saying something very important.
MR. WILLIAMS; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; You understand. Yeah, I'msorry,what did you say.
MR. WILLIAMS; I,when the water concerns my particulararea, Iwould liketo have a seat at
the table,That's what I'm saying. And Ithink that might be what other kanaka maoli
who have expressed the same sentiments might be saying, i cannot speak forthem
because everybody has theirown kuieana intheirspecificplace,that Icannot speak
on behalf of because it'snot my place.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions. Ifnot,thank you, Mr. Williams.
MR. WILLIAMS; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our next testifieris Noelani, I'm sorry,Kamalani Pahukoa. To be
followed by the testifiercallinginon the phone with the lastfourdigits8124.
MS. KAMALANI PAHUKOA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151; and
Committee Report Nos. 22-47 and 22-56);
Aloha, i hope I'm your lasttoday. Startgood diving rightintoit.Great job with the
lightingregulation.I hate to say it,but it'strue,some people are selfishto adapt to
change. However, Isee thisas a great step towards islandlifestewardship. Isupport
the amendment. I bet ifwe had some astronomers and conservationists,those experts
would support this wholeheartedly.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 129
Moving on to the water authority,likementioned or just kind of clarifying,you know,
we're allkanaka. Kanaka means human. I'm kanaka maoli. I'm haole, I'm Mexican,
you know, so maybe fizzlethatracistnarrativeand justput itaside because we are all
one here. We are the trustees, the beneficiaries,the present, the future, the
descendants of thisearth, this honua. When itcomes to water,yes, some have priority.
Kuleana users who have farmed for generations, those who live,of course, rightnext
to the stream would have priority.Itonly makes sense. Today you've listenedto our
islandcommunity. Mahalo to alltestifiers,trulypassionate residentswho seek honest
change and perpetuationof Aloha Aina stewardship.
My lifeissue,thiscurrent water war, and I know that'sa harsh word war. But it'sthe
realitywhen we talkabout our vested rightsto these waters thatare being challenged.
Let us break the colonialismlikementioned by Miss Keani two weeks ago. Let'sbreak
the imperialismthatcontinues to deprive our community rights.Your islandcommunity
broke silencetoday. They support the water authorityand I hear that,you know, we
support water authoritiescountywide.
This Council already knows the conflictsregarding CWRM, BLNR, and the State court,
courts. They are constantly being challenged on alllevelsdue to mismanagement.
We cannot maintain that environmental irresponsibility. Water jurisdictionis
complicated: however, thisisan amazing firststep. Amazing idea inprinciple,and like
mentioned a toolinyour toolbox as Maui County.
A reminder East Maui community willalways support Upcountry water users and
residents from Haiku to Kanaio and beyond. And Isay beyond because Iwould love
to see a filteredportable water system in Ulupalakua to serve our Kahikinui
Homestead. Like mentioned by Shane Sinenci,whose kupuna is I'm sure beyond
proud, hiswords, "The core of this Charter amendment isthe publictrust.Itdoesn't,
say kanaka maoli,itsays publictrust.The State has an obligationto protect,control,
and regulatethe use of Hawai'i'swater resources forthe benefitofitspeople. Itdoesn't
say kanaka maoli,itsays people."
Kai Kahele"s letterstated itisinthe County's best interestto secure a lease and free
itselffrom dependency of private,commercial, and thirdparty operators. We're not
duty bound to uphold the publictrust.As we know theirduty isto monopolize these
waters. Water that comes off the State lands should always be pursued by our people,
not investors from afar who's intent,intent,of course, isto profit.We must tieup our
resource or itwillbe stolen by rats. How can we ensure our Upcountry water users
will have water in the future ifwe do not have a seat at the table?
Voting yes willrehabilitatea fracturedsystem. Voting yes willempower your people.
The true measure of success willbe the number of people touched, empowered, and
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 130
transformed by our success. Let us carry on the effortsof our kupuna who have passed
before seeing water restoration. They have passed before seeing this amazing
measure of community take back.
Water is our lifeblood,thousands have lived without love, but none without water. We
exist today because of the ahupua'a system set in place by those who resisted
corporate control. Today, we recognize that the effects of culturaltrauma have
disconnected Hawaiian familiesfrom theirheritage. To assist our ohana today, we
must develop, practice and livein alignment with our resources. We are no greater
than water, than the native birds. We are no greater than the tinycoral polyps that
benefit our ecosystem. We are livingforms, strong, courageous and spiritually
grounded. And that'sallIhave foryou guys today. Mahalo foryour time.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions.Members? None.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieriscallingin on the phone with the lastfour digits8124
8124 willbe followed by Fay McFarlane.
MS. HANNAH BERNARD, HAWAII WILDLIFE FUND (testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-47):
Aloha ‘auinala,County Council Chair and Members. This is Hannah Bernard. Can
you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Aloha.
MS. BERNARD: Aloha and thank you so much for keeping this going. This is such an
important discussion. I'm representing Hawai'i WildlifeFund and I am justgiving a
quick endorsement to support the seabird protectionbilland to once again laud this
County Council and itsprogressive conservation thinking.This isreallythe rightthing
to do and not letthe Mayor tweak itand mess itup and make itnot pass because of
false information.
Much likewhat has happened with our historyof pollutingour nearshore waters with
wastewater. So Ionce again support you and laud you foryour leadership in moving
forward to protectour wildlifeand our aina and our oceans with your efforts.And the
water inparticular,alsowiththe water Charter,the lasttwo testifiers.I'msorryIcouldn't
hear everybody because working, but the lastfew testifierswere so articulate.And 1
justwant to reiterateand support theirtestimony because itwas so inspirational.And
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 131
agree and so supportive ofthe returnofthe water rightsand healingforallas imbedded
in our State Constitution,particularlyforthose who ... forthe kanaka maoli. So once
again, thanks to thisCouncil for being progressive and takingcare of Maui and our
aina. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. Ifnot,Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisFay McFarlane. And Fay willbe followed by the last
person currentlysigned up to testifywho isAlan Arakawa.
CHAIR LEE: Callagain.
COUNTY CLERK: Fay McFarlane.
MS. FAY MCFARLANE (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: Committee Report
Nos. 22-47, 22-57. & 22-59: and Resolution No. 22-162):
Aloha mai kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, aloha.
MS. MCFARLANE: Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. . .. Fay McFarlane kou inoa . .
. Lahaina. I'm a volunteer technical kako'o at Na 'Aikane o Maui, a 501 (c)(3)nonprofit
Hawaiian Cultural Center on Front Street in Lahaina. This testimony is offered on
behalf of kanaka maoli culturalpractitioners:Kazuo Flores, Courtney O'Kief,Winter
Flores, Carol Flores, Consuelo Apolo-Gonsalves, Raymond Gonsalves, Jezelyn
Gonsalves, Suzette Felicilda,Jacelyn Barrozo, UilaniKapu, KahikilaniNiles,Mauriirani
Niles-Cantero, Tauvananui Niles-Cantero, and LiliaNiles.
As kanaka whose customary practices,includingtraditionaluses ofwai are negatively
impacted by privatewater corporations,we the aforementioned support adding to the
November ballot a Charter amendment to let voters decide if we should create a
Countywide community water authorityfor Maui with regionalcommunity boards for
East Maui and also,forexample, Moloka'i,where we hope ‘Aha Kiole o Molokai would
be represented. We support County Communication 22-151,
ifI may also be permitted to submit my testimony as an individual.I also support
CC 22-151 for allthe reasons given by the representatives of Na Moku ‘Aupuni ‘o
Ko'olau. Also support for22-47, the Committee Report 22-47 forthe lightingbill.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 132
Committee Report 22-57 for planning commissions for allplanned community plan
areas. Please letthe votersdecide. The existingcommission meetings are reallylong
and the decisions have geographicallyquitea broad scope. So most Maui, Komohana
folks that I've spoken to would be more likelyto apply for a regional planning
commission ratherthan,you know, be mahaoi, making recommendations inHana, for
example.
And finally,letme see, I'm sorry,Ialso support Committee Report 22-59 to establish
the County residency requirement forboards, commissions, and committee members.
And the finally,I support Committee Report [sic]22-162 for the County to acquire
Crossroads Apartment in Lahaina. Mahalo foryour time.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our lastindividualsigned up to testifyisMayor Alan Arakawa.
CHAIR LEE: Good to see you again, Mr. Mayor.
MR. ALAN ARAKAWA (testifyingon County Communication No. 22-151: Committee Report
Nos. 22-47, 22-56 & 22-57: and Resolution No. 22-166):
Iwas hoping never to have to come back here and testifyagain. And, Ijustwant to
say good evening everyone, instead of good morning. I'm actuallygoing to make a
few short comments on four differentissues. Two are going to be reallyshort.
On 22-166, this isthe enforcement on unauthorized camping. I'dbe very carefulwith,
with this billas to how it'sformed to be able to allow law enforcement to be able to
selectand be able to reallyunderstand who is,would be illegaland who would be legal.
Because ifthey don't know and understand the Police Department, really,they're
people likeus,you know, they'renot going to be out there with lawyers and everything
else to be able to determine who isenforced against and who isnot. So they'regoing
to,they'regoing to be making that determination. And ifthere'snot a clearmethod for
them to determine it,itcan become very, very messy. So Ijustcautionthat.
Let'ssee on 22-57 justgoing to.thisisthe differentplanning commissions. I'djustlike
to remind everybody that there are a lotof communities rightnow where we have
CC&R's, where we have community groups thatare actuallycreatingthe rulesand the
laws forthose communities, you know. And many times it'sdone well,and many times
you get selectgroups thatbecome very,very polarizedand become very,shallwe say.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 133
bullyishinhow they enact the rulesand regulations.We have to make sure thatwhen
you're actuallydoing this,you're not enabling groups to be able to bullythe restofthe
community.
Remember, as in everything that we do, only a handful of people actuallycome out
and testify.The vast majorityof the community willnever come out and testify.So
whenever Ihear people come out and say, wellwe represent the community, I'veyet
to see the vote whereby other community members thatauthorizethem to be able to
come and testifyunless,of course, theirelected officials.So justbe aware thatthere's
a huge group out there that actuallynever pay much attentionand are not being
represented inthe discussion. So I'lljust caution that.
Ifwe create allthese different boards, itwillcreate delays in approvals of a lotof the
differentprojectsthatyou may want to achieve, such as affordablehousing projectsor
housing projectsingeneral forworkforce housing and whatever. And also the ability
to plan the community and to be able to dictatehow and what isgoing to happen within
each community. Remember, many, many times they'recontentious issues, even
withinthe community, and you're going to have to go through another step to be able
to get consensus. It'salways betterto be able to get people withina community to
have discussions. However, at times your goals as a Council to try and be able to
achieve something for the community may not necessarily be what the community
wants.
And I'llgive you a littlebitof an example in Kihei. We had Federal funding to be able
to do the south,the,the roadway along, along the coastlineto be able to do the-
CHAIR LEE; North-South Collector Road.
MR. ARAKAWA; No, no, not that,the one rightby the coastline.South Kihei Road. We were
going to,we were going to do allthe drainage, and we were going to do improvements
to that. There was a group that wanted to be able to not remove a few monkeypod
trees. And because of that,we returned a whole, millions of dollars of Federal funds.
So the community did not have the benefitof being able to have that road repairedto
the level itshould have with Federal funds.
And I'm saying thatthat'sjustan example of what can happen. That same instance,if
we had taken those four monkeypod trees,we were going to put them in one of our
parks, and puttingthem inone of the parks we're also going to,we also had committed
to allow the beautificationprogram and to develop a beautificationprogram for the
entire South Kihei area.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 134
But itwas rejected by the Kihei Community Association Board. So you can have
unintended consequences because of the politicizingof issues withinan area. So be
very carefulwith how you create that. And I speak from experience and I could go
through many differentexamples and there isno perfectsystem.
So Iwould be the lastone to say the County isthe best, thisplanning commission is
the best,another one isthe best. They allhave flaws,depending on the membership
in it,flaws and benefits. So justbe carefulhow you put things together.
Which comes to the other two issues that I want to be able to discuss. And that is the
two water proposal 22-151, and 1justwant to make sure Iget thiscorrectly,22-56. I’ve
submitted to the County Clerk a listof,ofthree pages worth of pointsto be, you should
be able to discuss and should have clarifiedbefore you actuallypass a billlikethis.
Now, in the resolutionitself,when you actuallylook at the resolutionand I'veheard a
lotof people testifyto this,you have no guarantees, you have no guarantees thatif
you form an overridinggroup, the directorofthatgroup isgoing todo anythingthatyou
want.
Currently,fact,ifthe County wanted to apply forthe water,the contractforthe water,
the State Water Commission, you could do it.But apparentlythe Mayor doesn'twant
to do itso you'retryingto create another entitythatwould do it.But remember, when
you do this,the Mayor has to appoint that person and the Council gets to approve or
disapprove. There's no guarantee thatthatperson isgoing to be who you want and
have the same view thatyou want. Okay itreallyisat the discretionof who is,who is
doing the appointingand what they want to do. Now lookingatthe,the board, you're
tryingto elect11, have 11 members put together.The composition ofthe board isalso
not guaranteed to be supportiveof this.
Boards willbe boards, they willdo whatever they feellike.They may be or they may
not be. There isno guarantee. And the makeup ofthe board,when you look at it,the
expertisethatwill,thatyou're requiringto be able to findpeople inany of the districts,
and when you create allof the districtsthat have the expertisethatthey need to be
able to understand the water systems isgoing to be very difficult.
Now Ihave personallybeen through almost allof the EMI systems. I'vebeen to every
water treatment plant. I'velooked at most of the wells, includinga lotof the private
wells, because I'vebeen around a long time. And one of the things and one of the
toolsthat you reallyneed to look at isdesignation of surface and subsurface water to
the State Water Commission. This is how we were able to determine who isgetting
what water from the lao Aquifer and how it'sbeing dispersed.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 135
And the groups that have been fightingthisallalong are also represented and have
been able to represent at the State Water Commission to be able to get a lotof things
thatthey wanted. Ifyou look at what's happening with the East Maui water situation,
ailthe,allthe areas where you actuallyhave taro farmers existingrightnow, allthe,all
the streams actuallyare running rightnow, 100 percent. They're not takingwater from
those streams. That was set aside by the State Water Commission, so they are taking
care of the farmers. So anyone who’s testifyingthat says hey, you know they'renot
gettingthe proper amount of water, it'snot because it'sbeing taken away from those,
those areas by the EMI ditch. Not according to the rulesthatwere establishedand put
down.
Now when you, when you startlooking at your proposal to the duties and powers of
the administrator of this overall . . . you're and I'lljust read a couple of these things
because we have limited time. "Manage water collectionand delivery systems
acquired,owned, or operated by the County." So, thisdoes not differentiatebetween
day to day operation,nor does itdifferentiatebetween new and existing. Itclearly
states,and the verbiage I'm reading itdirectly"Manage water collectionand delivery
systems acquired, owned, or operated by the County". You back that up on
Section 8-19.6, "The revenues of the water authoritymust be kept in separate funds
known as the Maui County community water fund and used" and we can go on, Ican
read the whole thingbut essentiallywhat it's,what it'sdoing issaying thisdirectorwill
be able to take allthe money from thisarea. So the water directorand the water board
are not going to be able to receivethe funds from, derivedfrom thisarea,to be able to
do the jobs thatthey need to do inthe area, according to how you have worded this.
Now 1willtellyou thatwhen Ilooked atthe,when 1looked atthis,one ofthe thingsthis
Council has been proud offora lotof the thingsisbeing able to be transparent. Look
at what you're puttinginto the Charter as words. "Shallthe Charter be amended to
establishthe Maui County Community Water Authoritywithcommunity regionalboards
to manage water collectionand deliverysystems acquired by the County, including
State license areas in East Maui, and to pursue, pursue long-term water lease
agreements with the State to provide a long-term reliablesupply of water fordomestic
and agriculturalneeds?"
Itsounds good, but thatdoes not includeforthe community to be abletosee allofthe
other stuffthatyou've put inthatare going to be requiredforthe formationofthisgroup.
Nor isitreallybeen discussed much.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, can you take a minute to conclude?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 136
MR. ARAKAWA; Okay. Well, inany case, IthinkI'm making the point. The idea and the
concept are good. The actualdocument and the verbiage in the document needs to
be worked on. On personal,a personal positionI'vetaken a long time ago was that
the County should controlallof the water systems, to controlallof the water systems.
Icould not get the Council to go along with it.There are a lotof thingsthat Icouldn't
get the Council to go along with otherwise we'd have done ita long time ago.
There's sufficientwater in the Upcountry area to be able to provide, provide water for
allthe water meters that aren't there. We have sufficient wells that can be used. When
David Taylor was Director,he came before the Council many times and explained that
there isadequate water Upcountry, except forabout less than a month during a year.
And we can pump water up from differentwells thatwe have there because likethe
PiiholoWell isused less than one month out of the year.
Anyhow, I'm going to run out of time, but thisis a very comprehensive issue and it's
going to have huge ramifications.Itshould not be rushed through, and you did this,a
lotof changes atthe lastmeeting thatyou had, should not be rushed through. Itshould
be very carefully thought out because the ramifications are going to exist for
generations.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. ARAKAWA: Thank you very much. Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Let'ssee ifwe have any questions,Members.
MR. ARAKAWA: Yuki.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You know, as you'retalkingabout the historyofwater and
your experience when you were Mayor and listeningbecause Iknow you've been here
since, Ithink 9:00 thismorning. I'veseen you sitover there and then you justrecently
moved here. But the authorityof water,whose hands isitin. Because you said when
you were Mayor, you wanted to, you know, take controlof the water. But doesn't
CWRM by our Constitutionhave, the State have jurisdiction?
MR. ARAKAWA: The CWRM has the jurisdiction,the State Water Commission has
jurisdiction,DLNR has some jurisdiction,the County has some jurisdiction.A lotof it
justdepends on what you're tryingto do with what, DLNR willhave the capabilityof
determining who willget the lease. It'snot going to be a County decision. You can
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 137
make as many suggestions as you want, people have talked about it,but it'sgoing to
be the DLNR that'sactuallygoing to make the decisionon that.
The allocationof water and how it'sgoing to be used can be determined by the State
Water Commission ifthey were to take the area and they were to do what we did with
the Wailuku Aquifers,which isto designate both surface and subsurface water so they
can actually,anyone who wants to use water has to petitionto be able tojustifywhat
amount ofwater they'retaking.So the jurisdictionsare very much splitand the County,
even ifyou pass thislegislation,is not going to be the one thatdetermines who gets
the contract. That's under the jurisdictionof the State.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So what would the authoritydo then? Imean, what, what
do you see with your experience.
MR. ARAKAWA: Well, you're creatingthe authority.You tellme what the authoritythatyou're
tryingto create besides an illusionto allthe people thathave testifiedthatyou actually
are going to be able to overridethe Statejurisdiction.Now, as Mayor, Iknow thatthere
isa hierarchy,you know, you have a Nationaljurisdiction,you have a Statejurisdiction,
come down County is a lower levelof government, and then you have community
boards and commissions.
But we're, we're not the drivingfactorinthis,inthisparticularwater issue. Otherwise,
we'd have been able to say, hey, we want all the water that we want. Water
Commission, you don't get to say it,we want to be able to do it.Legallywe couldn't
do that,otherwise, Iwould have loved to be able to do that. But we were able to say
Water Commission we want you to designate so we can now identifywho isusing what
water, and we can also identifyhow we can distributethatwater where itmakes sense.
Idon't know ifI'm answering your question.
CHAIR LEE: Did he answer your question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, Imean, Ithink,you-
MR. ARAKAWA: Yeah, because-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -and a lotof the testimony thatwe heard today was talking
about this authoritywould have jurisdictionover, you know, the decisions. But it
sounds like-
MR. ARAKAWA: Making, yeah, there'sa lotof assumptions thatare being made thatare not
factualand actual. And that'sone of the big problems with publictestimony when the
publicdoesn't have time to be able to see and read and digestindetaila lotof what
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 138
has to go on inthe legal,inthe legalchannels, inthe court,and to be able to know
from historicalreference what happened at the State Water Commission, what's
happening at the various boards and commissions, you know.
Fortunately or unfortunately,because I'm getting a lotolder and because I’vebeen
around a long time, I'vebeen to many of these places and many, done many of the
things,are necessary to be able to tryand understand the water situationvery well.
CHAIR LEE: Did Mr. Mayor, answer your questions.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Are there,yes.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mayor Emeritus Arakawa.
MR. ARAKAWA: Yeah, righthere.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo for your testimony. Okay, I have two
questions. My firstquestion is regarding your testimony on the selection of the
community board on page eight,where itsays "Of these eight members, four are
appointed by the Council, and four are appointed by the Mayor."
MR. ARAKAWA: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: "The three remaining members are appointed by the
Council" so seven would be appointed by the Council and three appointed by the
Mayor. Did you read that part?
MR. ARAKAWA: Yep, righthere.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Okay, because itjust-
MR. ARAKAWA: Iactuallyread the documents, you know.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh no, Ijust,it,it's,itwas conflictinginyour testimony
when you said thatthe Mayor would appoint and the Council would confirm. And that
section there clearlydoes, that'snot how itwould-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 139
MR. ARAKAWA: The Mayor gets, no we're talk,Iwas talkingabout the director.The, it,it
says thatthe,the director,ifI,maybe, the Administrator,appointed, on Section 8-19.4
"The administratorisappointed by the Mayor with the approval ofthe Council." That's
what Iwas talkingabout, the administrator.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, for that clarification.Okay, and then my
second question,and Ibelieve Member Sinenci will,willaddress thatlateron when the
item comes up. My second, my second question is regarding hierarchy,you where
talking about hierarchy and CWRM with the water leases. And CWRM when
presenting in Member Sinenci's Committee talked about, you know, the, their
preference to give water leases to a sisteragency likeMaui County. And so have,
have you heard of that,you know, as faras hierarchy,they would rathergive a water
lease to a sisteragency, a County government, than a privateforprofitorganization.
MR. ARAKAWA: As you went through the Lahaina hearings justthe other week ...the State,
you know, the State Water Commission has been told by the courts thatthey actually
have to startdoing things and they have to starttaking control,which iswhy they're
startingto look at designations of differentareas. CWRM and as an organization can
make decisions. Any of these organizationscan tryand defer some of the authorityof
decision making justthrough testimony justlikeyou do. You know, somebody comes
up and testified,you can change your mind and you can, you could make that part of
your testimony, and part of the decision making.
And a matter offact,ifyou'redoing itright,you should listento the testimony and then
be able to digestthatand take the good parts and throw the bad parts out. And CWRM
can do the same thing,the members can do the same thing. Remember, justlikethis
Council,the members change, they're,they're,they'renot there forever,you know?
So you're going to see changes in philosophy and in how they pursue things,
depending on the membership themselves. So I hope I'm answering your question
sort of,isjustthey can give the County preference and they have, they can indicate
that,but thatcan also change with the changing of the membership.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Oh, Mr. Sinenci,
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair and mahalo Mayor Arakawa forcoming and
testifyingthisafternoon. So, Itellthat you're a man of proactive and progressive, if
you were able to, when you were as a Mayor, you were tryingto,to acquire these
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 140
leases, so, or these water systems. So my question is,as the Mayor, did you enter
intoan intergovernmental agreement with the State at the time?
MR. ARAKAWA: We, we couldn'tget the State to actuallycommit. ..
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Because we were told from Mr. Hirokawa that the County
could do thatto acquire the leases.
MR. ARAKAWA: The County from, from a technicalstandpoint,and I'mgoing to say thatthis
iscloudy to a littlebit.Okay, when A&B firstcreated the EMI system, they agreed with
the State to be able to give State the abilityto use some ofthe system. So ifthe State
were to transmitthat authorityto the County, and I,this,thisdiscussion has been
contested by A&B, okay, if,ifthattrulyoccurs and thisiswhat I'veseen, then we could
utilizethe EMI system ifthe, ifthe State iswillingto transmitthisauthority.We don't
have to buy the system, allwe have to do isget the State to give us the rightto use it.
Now inthe ditchitself,ifwe were to,let'ssay, artificiallyput inplasticpipes allthe way,
you could put itwithinthe ditch system itselfand stillhave dual use. You could have
agriculturaland you could have domestic water use taking the underground water,
which isa lotcleaner so you don’t have to go through allthe treatmentprocess of,of
surface water that picks up allthe leaves and everything else.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto designating Mayor Arakawa a resource person
when thisitem comes up?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Which item. Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No-
CHAIR LEE: The East Maui Water Authority,Imean, the Community Authority.Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: It'sjustthat we've, we've designated some of our resources
and we've had about. Chair we've had about 15 meetings on thisthatwe've had both
in the GREAT Committee, the APT Committee, and so some of the thingsthat,alldue,
to respect a lotof the things has, what Mr. Mayor iscitinghas, is,has changed.
CHAIR LEE: Well-
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 141
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: During, during those discussions. Yeah, I appreciate
bringingthose up, but that'sjustnot simply.
him
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objectionsto having the Mayor be a resource person when
matter comes up.
this
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Objection.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can we take a rollcallvote,and we'llhave a motion, a motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO HAVE MAYOR ARAKAWA BE A RESOURCE
WHEN WE TAKE UP THE WATER AUTHORITY ITEMS ON THE
AGENDA.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; -Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Molina to have Mayor Arakawa be
a resource person when thismatter comes up, which isthe Community Water Authority
matter before the . . .at that time, whenever that is.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, I.I would like him to because of his, his historical
knowledge and actuallyhands on experience with working with this. And to me his,
his experience is imbedded in factual history,you know, based upon the years of
service not,you know, thathe has given to the County as a Councilmember, but you
know, of course, as a three term Mayor, which isvery significantto me. It'salmost like
writinga historybook. So that'smy reason. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 142
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.
Member Sinenci, and then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you, Chair. And alldue respect,Mayor, but I
think,you know, this entire process was based on the preface that the County can
enter intoan intergovernmentalagreement with the State,thatthe currentMayor can,
can do so. And so if,ifthe Mayor doesn't feelthat,thatthe County isable to do that,
that,thatwas presented to us in our October APT meeting by Mr. Ian Hirokawa from
the Department of Land and Natural Resources. So thatthat,thatwas the premise
thatbegan this,thisentireprocess. So with thatas my objection.Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, I reallyappreciate Mr. Arakawa being
here and givingus your perspective. We had a prettyrobustdiscussion,Ithink,with
him on the floor.And Ifeel likeitwould be inappropriateto have him be a resource
because we've had so much that'shappened to thispointthat he has not been a part
of, that have been new revelations, our, our interactions with the State directlyas
Councilmember Sinenci said. So I'm not sure, I mean, I,Iappreciatewhat I'veheard,
I'm not sure that there could be a lot added to the discussion from what, you know, all
the meetings thatwe've had on thisissue. So that’smy objection.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,anyone else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. In allthe time I'vebeen on
the Council, Ihave never opposed anyone's request to have a resource.And you don't
even have to callon the resource ifyou don't want to. So infairness,and i hope it's
not being, has something to do with politicshere. The former Mayor can bring a
perspectiveas a Mayor to see, you know, because the Council,we initiatelegislation,
the Mayor and the executive department, they have to carryouttheselaws. And ifit's
the willof the people to approve a Charter amendment and you know, the Mayor
certainlyhas a, an Administration,they have a rolewithailof this.So it'smore of a
justa sharingof perspective.And you know, that'sjusthow Itake it,and Iappreciate
anyone who wants to be a resource.
And, you know, so Ithinkwe should always make ourselves availableto hear whoever
has, wherever they've been in the whole, you know, water matter. Of course,the
former Mayor fora long time was involved in a lotof water discussionswhether you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 143
agree or disagree. So for me, I don't have a problem ifhe \wants,wants to be a
resource, but ifothers do, I'llrespect that. But, again, justin general, it'sabout, you
kno\A/,tapping into allof our resources out there in the community for contentious
issues. So that'sjustmy take,Madam Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments? No. And I'lljustsay that Iagree with Mr. Molina, it,it
would be nice to have a more balanced perspective. And cause we already know the
two designated resource people are strong advocates of thisproposal,which isfine.
But apparently they're being, it,itseems here that no one, no one else is being
considered because there may be dissension. So at thistime. I'dliketo take the vote.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO, THANK YOU.
But I don't know that I'veever taken a vote before public testimony was closed. So
justmaking sure we're not violatingany laws.
CHAIR LEE: No, we're taking a vote on, on whether someone can be a resource person or
not. So we wouldn't be taking itafterwards,we'd be taking itnow.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, I’llvote no thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 144
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI. AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
NOES;
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, there are five "ayes", three, I mean five "noes", three "ayes
one "excused". The motion fails.
Well, but we do thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your, your testimony here today. Further
questions forthe Mayor.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well I have, Iwould liketo ifIcould, and justtalkabout the
feasibilityand, and what he sees and steps forward.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, well,unfortunately,he didn'tcover that part. So, you know, we only want
to staywithclarification.Any more clarificationquestions? Ifnot,thank you very much,
Mr. Mayor.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 145
MR.ARAKAWA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we have one more individual who signed up to testify,and that
would be Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. FAITH CHASE (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: and Committee Report
No. 22-56):
Aloha. Chair Lee. Aloha, Councilmembers. Ijustwanted to say thank you forlistening
to allthe citizens,residents of Maui and justremind thisbody thatifyou have 70 plus
testifiers in favor for this East Maui Water Council and the Water Council, the Maui
County Water Council,and ifyou vote against this,you'revotingagainstyour people.
So justkeep thatinmind. Thank you so much foryour time today. A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions? No questions,Members forthe testifying.
Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
MS. CHASE: A hui hou.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair Lee, we do not have any other testifiersnoted. Ifanyone has not
testifiedbut would liketo do so, please identifyyourselfnow. This isthe lastcallfor
testifiers.Chair, no one has, no one else has indicated thatthey wish to testify,and
we have received writtentestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto receivingwrittentestimony intothe record
and to closingpublictestimony?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, objection.Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Seen one guy, Paul, Paul raised hishand when you said ifany
one else wanted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 146
MR. PAUL KEAHI (testifying on County Communication No. 22-151: and Committee Report
No. 22-56):
Aloha . . .
CHAIR LEE: I'msorry. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Ithink the Member said there's one more testifier.Isthatwhat you said,Member
Paltin.
MR. KEAHI: Aloha, Aloha, can you allhear me?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Paul raised his hand and now he's saying aloha, can you all
hear me.
MR. KEAHI: Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Members, you have any objectionsto lettingthisperson be the lasttestifier.He
did come online after we had asked for testifiers.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.
Okay, Madam Clerk can you callthe testifier,please.
MR. KEAHI: Aloha. Can you allhear me?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, can you stateyour name forthe record,please.
MR. KEAHI: Yes. My name isPaul Kapalu Keahi and Icome from Lahaina. And justwanted
to testifyinsupport of both measures, the 22-151 as wellas the 22-56 on the agenda
today. And the Hana community, or the west, the East Maui community isa very .. .
community. There are many, many people inthatcommunity whom 1lovevery much;
friends,family,so on and so forth.And they have endured many generationsofwater
theft.And justlikeLahaina, we, who, you know, we are very much familiarwith that
water theft,which, which exacerbated the land theft. And so, for any governmental
agency to allow the plantationsor the plantation-mindedcorporationsout there to
continue to take water from the east end without the approval,withoutthe concession
on the part of the,the East Maui people isa tragedy and isa crime.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 147
I think the decision to distributewater, which is equal to theirwealth over on the east
end of Maul, the decision isa, isa sacred one onto, onto the people of East Maui. And
so, the distributionof their wealth should be in their hands and should be ultimately
made by theirdecisions. So, with that I'dliketo say, aloha to allthe East Maui water
protectorsand fightersover the generations. You have certainlybeen an inspirationto
the West Maul water protectors.And Iwant thisCouncil to pass itthrough. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are thereany questionsforthe testifier?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.Thank you, Mr. Keahi. Just clarifyingyou’re
insupport of the countywide opportunityas wellas the East Maui one.
MR. KEAHI: Absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Right on. Thank you. Inever knew thatwas you when Ijust
said Paul. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'stake one more lastcall.Nobody can hear you. Okay, lastcallfor
testifiers.Anyone online,inthe building?Give you ten more seconds.
Okay, Madam Clerk,Idon'tthinkthere is anyone. Okay, no one has indicatedthat
they wish totestify.And so. I'llask you once again,Members, are thereany objections
to receivingwrittentestimony intothe record and to closingpublictestimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
John Pelletier,Chief of Police;
David Lane Henkin, Earthjustice;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Mike Moran;
EricMiyasato;
Scott Rollins,Wastewater Reclamation DivisionChief;
Jordan Molina, Directorof Public Works;
Alan Arakawa;
KallieKeith-Agaran;
William J.Aila,Jr.,Hawaiian Homes Commission Chairman;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 148
John Blumer-Buell;
Denise Boisvert;
Lynn Britton;
Sherry Broder, Charter Commission's Legal Analyst;
RichelleM. Thomson, FirstDeputy Corporation Counsel;
Keola R. Wittaker, Deputy Corporation Counsel;
Tria Cabral;
Lehua Cosma;
Robert A. Detrick;
David Fradin;
Kay Fukumoto;
Chad Fukunaga, Kaanapali Land Management Corp.;
Gerard C. Gibson, Ha\A/aiiHotel Alliance;
Tara Grace;
Steve Grimes;
Maya Hara;
Alexa Hatton;
Ralph Hendrickson;
Elizabeth Hird;
Sarah K. Hofstadter;
Kim Jorgensen;
Carol Lee Kamekona;
Mia Kaulana;
Mary Keller;
Tori Lawson;
Kathy Lewis;
Suzette Marlowe;
Matt McDonald;
Marla Mervis-Hartmann;
Hanna L. Mounce;
Kyle K. Nakanelua;
John Naylor;
Buddy James Nobriga; Maui County Board of Water Supply;
Lucrezia Oddie;
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros;
PacificResource Partnership;
Paula Phillips;
Pamela Polland;
Grace Pretre;
JillRichards;
Sheila Roback;
Carter Rosenthal;
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 149
51. Michael Sado;
Susanna SeaFire;
Barry Sultanoff;
Ane Takaha;
Akari Ueoka;
Jennifer Valentine:
Tapani Vuori, Maui Ocean Center;
Richard J. Wainscoat;
Aerie Waters; and
Alicia Wood.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Now, what would you liketo do? It'sfive,it’smore than recess. Ithink
we're looking at dinner. Okay, so are we looking at a one-hour dinner and resuming at
seven? 7:30?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, no. before we take a dinner break, maybe we can do
some of the lighterstuffbefore going to break. You know, likethe minutes, maybe
Consent Calendar, justa couple of small things-
CHAIR LEE; East Maui Water Authority.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: That might take,thatmight take a few-
CHAIR LEE: Actually,ifwe did thatfirst,we might get through earlier.Members, you want
to take some of the lighteritems firstbefore going to dinner,a dinnerbreak?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, 1 don't know the body's schedule next week, but
would any be interestedin recessing tillnext week and do this,Isee people shaking
theirheads no. Okay. Figure I'dask.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so Members, you want to take up, you know, tikego forten minutes and
then take an hour and a halfbreak? Okay.
Madam Clerk,we're going to do the minutes and the Consent Calendar and a few easy
things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 150
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of April1, 2022, was
presented at thistime.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to
approve the minutes ofApril1,2022.
Discussion? Ifnot, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND PALTIN.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Tamara wasn't on?
Okay, allthose infavorofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 151
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay, everybody has, we're going to be here forten minutes only. So
everybody stay online,okay?
So, again, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused": motion carries. Okay.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
COUNTY CLERK; Okay. Chair,proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-148 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated June 23, 2022)
Informing of the acceptance of a Roadway Lot and a Road Widening Lot,Pueo Hill
Subdivision, Lots 382 & 383, TMK; (2)2-3-022;144 & 145.
- JOSEPH PONTANILLA. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT PROGRAM MANAGER, (dated June 22, 2022)
NO. 22-149
Transmittinga noticeof grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Community Planning and Development for the Community
Development Block Grant Program inthe amount of $1,868,193.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 152
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,to file
all items on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion? Ifnot, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes one "excused": motion carries.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications. You have before you
county-
CHAIR LEE: Let'sjustdo one, okay?
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-150 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated June 13, 2022)
Transmitting 85 contracts/grantsforthe month of March 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 153
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo Chair.
IMOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-150, EXCEPT
THOSE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS THAT
COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
filethe contracts,except for,and grants,except forthose pulledby the Members.
Members? Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CONTRACT C7578, ABOUT SPEED TABLES; C7478, WAIALE
EXTENSION: C7582, PUKALANI TERRACE SUBDIVISION
PAVEMENT; AND C7619, WHICH IS INVESTMENT GRADE
AUDIT FOR JOHNSON CONTROL. THANK YOU.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore, Members?
Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
CAN I GET C7584, LOWER HONOAPIILANI ROAD
REHABILITATION; C7419A-1, LAHAINA SAFETY
AMBASSADOR PROGRAM TO HCP; AND G5579,
HEALTHCARE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT TO HCP AS
WELL. THE FIRST ONE WAS FOR IT, SORRY, IF I DIDN'T
SPECIFY.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then, anybody else? Any objectionsto these items justreferredto
by the two Councilmembers?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 154
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
So, any objections,let'stake the vote on filing,filingthe restof the contracts,except
forthose justnoted. Allthose infavor of filingthe contracts,raiseyour hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Okay, so the next page begins more substantive matters and so shallwe take our
break now? It'sabout 6:02, so 7:30, everybody? Same time, same place. Alright.
Well, I meant, you know, in general, I meant the same time. Okay, 7:30 be back
promptly now, okay? Alright,meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 6:02 P.M.,AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 7:34 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBERS KAMA AND
SUGIMURA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Maui County Council meeting of July 1,2022 please reconvene. It'sabout 7:34.
Madam Clerk,can we please continue with our agenda?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes, we can continue with-
CHAIRLEE; Wait. Can't hear you.
- SHANE M. SINENCI, COUNCILMEMBER
(dated June 22, 2022)
NO. 22-151
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-119, CD1, entitled
"PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY
OF MAUI (1983),AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH A MAUI COUNTY COMMUNITY
WATER AUTHORITY AND AN EAST MAUI COMMUNITY REGIONAL BOARD".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 155
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may Irequest
thatthisitem be brought up at the same time as Committee Report 22-56?
CHAIR LEE; Any objections?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No objections.
CHAIR LEE; No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
Procedural question.
Committee and I'm supposed to, Iguess, introduce itfor consideration. So, how are
we going to do thisthen ifwe're going to have both? You know, willMr. Sinenci first
discussed 22-151, we take a vote on that,and then we go to,straightto 22-56? Isthat
how we're going to proceed?
22-56 came under the GREATCOUNCILMEMBER MOLINA;
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, thank you. Chair and mahalo, Member Molina. Yeah,
we were going to take Member Molina's lead and then referto me for,for my
substitution.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina, shall we calla short recess to-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah. I'm not. I'm not clear how we're going to do, cause
Member Sinenci's proposal is under county communications and mine is under
committee reports. So, maybe, I see Mr. Raatz on, on the callifhe would liketo
comment.
CHAIR LEE; David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ; Thank you, Chair Lee and
Councilmember Molina. If 1 may just briefly? As I understand, Councilmember
Sinenci'scounty communication; it’spresented as an Amendment Summary Form
responding to the GREAT Committee's committee report,which willbe presented by
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 156
Councilmember Molina as Chair of that Committee,
progression from looking at the documents, when we get to that committee report,
Chair Molina from the GREAT Committee will recommend adoption presumably of
what the Committee recommended. And then, at that time, amendments would be in
order,includingperhaps Councilmember Sinenci'sAmendment Summary Form that's
attached to his communication. Thank you.
So, as I understand the
CHAIR LEE: So, the,so the request was to take thismatter up when the same item comes
up forthe GREAT Committee. That was the procedural question,David? David, come
back. So, that,that's,that'sacceptable, right? That, that'sokay?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina, did you have any more questions of David Raatz?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. So, as I understand itthen, we'll,cause we're currently
on County Communication 22-151, Mr. Sinenci'sproposal. So, isit,willMr. Sinenci,
willyou be introducingthat and then we take a vote, or do we just skip over to
Committee Reports 22-56, I do my spieland then, then you come back with yours?
Sorry,I'mstillnot quiteclear. Isee Mr. Raatz again.
CHAIR LEE: David, could you explainitagain please?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Sure. So, we do have the section on the,
the meeting agenda for committee reports. And my understanding of what
Councilmember Sinenci's proposing right now is that his communication, which
happens to be listedfirston the agenda, be deferred untilthe corresponding committee
report istaken up laterinthe meeting. So, then again, his amendment would be in
order at thatpointbecause it'sresponding to the GREAT committee report.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, so from a procedural matter then, we justskip over
22-151 and then go to County Communication 22-152. Finishcounty communications,
then we go to committee reports.Then when itgets to 22-56,mine,Ido my spieland
then Mr. Sinenci willbring up-
CHAIR LEE: Amend.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 22-151. Okay.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: That's correct.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, 1got it.Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 157
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so no objectionsto deferringCC 22-151 untilwe take up Committee
Report 22-56? Okay, everybody got that?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, Madam Clerk,the next CC.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, the next CC, actually,the next three of them are going to be
somewhat similar;waitingforanother item to come up on the agenda.
NO. 22-152 - KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, CHAIR. BUDGET. FINANCE.
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
(dated June 23, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-121, entitled"APPROVING
COST ITEMS FOR EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM BARGAINING UNIT 11, FIRE
FIGHTERS".
NO. 22-153 - KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. CHAIR. BUDGET. FINANCE
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
(dated June 23, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Resolution 22-122, entitled"APPROVING
COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 11, FIRE FIGHTERS".
NO. 22-154 - KING TAKAYA KING. CHAIR. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE.
AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE, (dated June 23, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill21, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO
PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 158
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Ifthere are no objections,may Iask the Clerk
to callup thiscommunication laterin the agenda for our discussion on Committee
Report 22-47, which isagendized under "Unfinished Business"?
CHAIR LEE: Committee Report 22 dash, did you say 47?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Seven.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Under "Unfinished Business".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any. any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
NO. 22-155 - HELENE KAU. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY.
(dated June 22, 2022)
Transmittingthe State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource water use reportsfor
April2022 forallregisteredwell reportersinthe County of Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-155 be referred to the
Infrastructureand TransportationCommittee.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any objectionsto the referrals,except forCR, Imean CC 22-154, as
requested by Member King.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ifthere are no objections.Iwould
liketo ask that County Communication 22-152 and 22-153 be taken up at the same
time as Resolutions 22-121 and Resolution 22-122.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 159
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Alright.So, that leaves only one. Idon'tthinkMember Yukimura [sic],Sugimura will
mind takingthatinher IT Committee. Alright.No objections,right,tothe referrals?
Committee reports.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-55 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "PROPOSING AN AMENDMENTRecommending that Resolution 22-165
TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED,
RELATING TO PROMOTING CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-165 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member King,... to pass thisbillon
firstreading, be ordered to print.
Any discussion, Member Molina?
(Councilmember Sugimura returnedto the meeting at 7:41 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. Your Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on June 7 and June 15, 2022, to
discuss the proposed resolutionto place on the next General Electionballotthe
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 160
question of whether the Revised Charter of the County of Maui (1983),as amended,
should be furtheramended, effectiveJanuary 2, 2023, to establisha County policyto
promote climatechange adaptation,includingthe implementation ofguidelinestoallow
telework and alternative work schedules for certain County employees.
Your Committee notes telecommuting has been widely implemented throughout the
County inresponse to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Environmental Coordinator added thattelecommuting helps to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions, impacts roadways, and traffic.And both the Mayor's Officeof Climate
Change, Resiliencyand Sustainabilityand the Managing Directorexpressed support
of thisproposal.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of the proposed resolution,with
one Committee Member excused; Member Johnson. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion on thisresolution?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I,for allthe reasons that was juststated by the GREAT
Committee Chair, I support this. And we heard a lotof support from the public. It's
actuallywhat we're already doing, so itjustkind of codifieswhat we're doing, 1guess.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Let the record show that Member Sugimura
ispresent. Now there are eight of us.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: But wait, ... Iwanted to say a few words.
CHAIR LEE: No. No, Iwas justsaying thatforthe record and then 1was going to callon you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, I'mcallingon you. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So. thank you. I moved to my Kula officeand I'm sorry
that Iwas a littlebitlate. But iwanted to justsay, inbehalfof Tasha Kama cause this
was her proposed Charter amendment, and Ithink that the testifiersas well as what
we said earlierexemplifies what she expressed during Committee meeting. So, thank
you very much forsupporting her Charter amendment. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 161
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more comments or questions? Allthose infavorofthe motion,raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; motion passes.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-56 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "PROPOSING ANRecommending that Resolution
AMENDMENT TO THE REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983),AS
AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH THE EAST MAUI COMMUNITY WATER AUTHORITY."
be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
22-119, CD1
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
1 MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1 ON FIRST
READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci,to pass Committee
Report 22-56, recommending firstreading of Resolution 22-119, CD1 to pass first
reading.
Any discussion? Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 162
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on June 7 and June 15, 2022, to discuss
Resolution 22-119, which would place on the next General Election ballotthe question
of whether the Charter should be further amended, effective January 1, 2023, to
establish the East Maui Community Water Authority and Community Board to:
1) pursue the feasibilityof acquiring the long-term water lease agreements for the
Nahiku, Ke'anae, Honomanu, and Huelo License Areas and enter into an
intergovernmental agreement to provide a long-term reliablesupply of water for
domestic and agriculturalneeds; and 2) manage water resources in a competent,
fiscallyresponsible,and transparent manner as mandated by the State of Hawaii
Constitutionand publictrustdoctrine.
Your Committee notes historicconcerns have long been emphasized by localelected
officialsabout the appropriate management of water in Maui County, and in particular,
the water in East Maui.
Your Committee also notes a Temporary InvestigativeGroup was formed by the
County Board ofWater Supply to explorethe feasibilityof purchasing and maintaining
the East Maui IrrigationCompany, LLC water deliverysystem and examine other
alternativesfor ensuring that the people of Maui County have authority over the
deliveryof water.
The primary recommendation from the TIG stated that the Maui County should
immediately apply for a long-term water lease for the Nahiku, Ke'anae, Honomanu,
and Huelo License Areas in the Makawao and Hana Districts,on the island of Maui.
And your Committee furthernoted that,as a government agency, the East Maui
Community Water Authorityshould, would have an unambiguous obligationto uphold
the publictrustdoctrine and the legalobligationsof the Hawaiian Homes Commission
Act and the State of Hawaii Constitution, and have the abilityto obtain significant
private.State,and Federal funding not availableto private,for-profitentitiesto manage
and upgrade water deliverysystems and to protectthe watershed in License Areas.
And also, the Council's Agriculture and Public Trust Committee met on May 24
May 31, June 14, and June 28. to discuss the proposed Charter amendment.
And your Committee amended Resolution 22-119 to provide clarityand flexibility,
incorporate inputfrom the community and the Department of the Corporation Counsel,
amend the effectivedate to January 2, 2023, and make numbering and nonsubstantive
changes throughout.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 163
And your Committee voted 5-3 to recommend thatResolution 22-119, CD1 be passed
on firstreading,with Committee Member Johnson excused. 1thinkI'vesaid enough.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Mahaio, Chair. And mahalo, Member Molina.
MOVE TO SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION 22-119, CD1, WITH
THE PROPOSED FD1 VERSION ATTACHED TO THE ASF
FOR GREAT CR 22-56, WHICH HAS BEEN DISTRIBUTED TO
YOU.
COUNCILMEMBER KING;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Moved by Member Sinenci,to substitutewith this,his new
proposal. Was thatdistributedduring the recess?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And ifstaffcan go ahead and include that inthe chat.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. It's,itwas on the agenda. That, that
was the item that Member Sinenci asked to be taken up at the same time as the CR
22-56. That's 22-151. That's his ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. When I leftthe building,itwasn't done yet. So, that'swhy I'm asking
was itdistributedafterwe, afterwe leftthe building?
Okay, maybe Ishould ask, when was itdistributed?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Looks like Mr. Raatz-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. So, there was an
Amendment Summary Form listedon the meeting agenda from Councilmember
Sinenci, as we were discussing earlier,with the primary focus of extending the water
authority proposal to Countywide instead of just East Maui. There's been a new
Amendment Summary Form that was just emailed to the Councilmembers that I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 164
understand willsupersede what was posted on the agenda. It'svery similarinterms
of notice. So, we believe that the new Amendment Summary Form isfairgame under
the Sunshine Law. But we understand that's what Councilmember Sinenci will be
asking the body to work from at thispoint.Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, the new one, right? The new one?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. My apologies forthat confusion. I
have a question for Mr. Raatz.
Mr. Raatz, ifby doing the substitution,usually when we substitute,there'sno further
amendments thatcan be made. Would we justwaive a Rule, so ifwe wanted to make
furtheramendments or can we justmake furtheramendments?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair. And thanks for the
question,Vice-Chair.We've looked at Robert'sRules and we believethatthe message
about a motion to substitute is that while that motion is pending there shouldn't be
further amendments. Itshould be a straightup or down vote on that motion to
substitute. But after that motion is dealt with, then further amendments would be in
order. Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Mr. Raatz. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, was that, so Mr. Raatz, the new, the newest version was
justemailed? Idon'tseem to have it,so ifyou could send itto my directemail that
would be helpful,since my staffis,Iletmy staffgo home.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: i'llforward it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you, do you want fiveminutes to read it?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes, please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: Ihaven'tread itmyself. Okay. Itis,okay, we can returnat 5:50, 5:60, 5:60.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, it's7:53, so Ithinkyou mean 8?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that'swhat Imeant. Iwas going to say 8:00, but Isaid 5:60. Okay, 8:00,
so that gives us a few minutes. And ifyou haven't received it,can you check with
David?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Got it. Thanks Keani.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Meeting inrecess till8:00.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 7:53 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 8:03 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE:
reconvene.
Will the Maui County Council, Council meeting of July 1, 2022, please
Where were we, Ms. Madam Clerk? Okay, we passed out the ASF's, so are there any
questions on this.Members?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, ifImay justgo ahead and give a briefsummary of the
ASF?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, Members, thisproposed FD1 version came as a result
of our most recent Committee discussions. Itproposes thatthe Charter be amended
to create a Maui County Community Water Authority and an East Maui Regional
Community Board and Administrator. Also allows the Council to create additional
regionalcommunity boards and administratorsas warranted. Italso amends language
throughout the consistency and adds or amends certainprovisionsformore specificity
and clarification,including:
Adding more specific clarifyinglanguage relating to membership area
designations, aquaculture and lo'i[sic]i'a,loko i‘a practices,the board
appointment of Hawaiian Homes Commission member, and initialboard
staffing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 166
Itamends language relatingtothe powers, duties,and functionsofthe regional
community boards,to betterdelineatethe responsibilitiesbetween the authority
and the Department ofWater Supply. Italsoestablishesthatthe regionalboard
appoints the regional administrator,to provide more input from the
accountabilityto the communities.
Italso establishes the East Maui Regional Administrator and provides forthe
creationof additionalregionaladministrators,the process fortheirappointment
and removal, and the salaryto be set by the Salary Commission. Itremoves
language detailingspecificqualificationrequirements to providemore flexibility
in the appointment process.
ItspecifiesthatWater Authorityfunds are kept inseparate funds foreach region.
And itamends the question on the ballotto reflectcountywide Water Authority
with regionalcommunity boards to manage water systems thatare acquired by
the Water Authority. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair. Thank you, Mr. Sinenci. The one thing I'mconfused about
isthere'sno staffingor there'sno descriptionof what the County Community Water
Authorityis. So, there isa, under Section 6, itsays thatdeliverysystems acquired by
the Water Authorityincludethe State licenseareas inEast Maui. But then,so ifthere's
somebody, ifthere'sgoing to be a Community Water Authoritythat'sgoing to acquire,
there's no, who is that? Is that going to be an administrator with stafffor the
countywide? But then, under Section 8-19.5,itsaid thatthe regionaladministrators
willacquire water systems and leases. So, that's,acquire water systems and leases
to be managed by the Water Authority. So, I'm a littlebitconfused of where the
structureof the Community Water Authoritycomes in.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. As the,each regionalboard comes online
that community board willset those staff,staffingpositions.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but where's the County, where's the Community Water
Authority? So, so, we're just creating a system of regionalboards? We don'treally
have a community body? Ithought the point of itwas to have a Community Water
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 167
Authority,likea countywide Water Authorityand then these boards would be advising
the differentregions.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCi: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Member King, are you speaking about the board or justthe
staffingat thisone?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I'm justwondering about the staffingforthe countywide
Water Authority. Because the, the boards are described with the staffingand the
administrator,but there'snothing describing the countywide Water Authority,which is
the under, under the item, or 1guess it'sparagraph six. Itsays that the Maui County
Community Water Authority with regional community boards to manage collection
deliverysystems acquired by the Water Authority. So, itsounds likethe water, the
Water Authorityisgoing to acquire the systems but there has to be somebody inthe
countywide Water Authorityto do that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Member King, forthatquestion. Itlooks like,so
those staffingwould be proposed by the Council.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so that would be, that doesn't, that'snot in the Charter
amendment but it,it'sintentioned that there would be, we're going to create a
countywide Water Authority and then the Council would create the staffingand a
structureforthat? Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alright.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; So, does that mean, Member Sinenci, that that structure needs to be created
before the regionalauthoritiesor boards are created? Right? You have to have the
centralone, community, the centralone first,right?
I,Ithinkyou're muted. Ican'thear you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, sorry about that,Chair. Yeah, the first,the firstregion
would be established with the, this amendment. And then, as each one comes on,
then we'llbe adding each regional one. And itmight not be, whether itbe several
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 168
years, but we’re just kind of settingup the structure.We're juststartingwith the East
Maui and then as more regional boards come online,whether they do itor not, then,
then we'llcreate thatstaffingmechanism.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, but Ithought you, thisamendment was to create the Maui County
Community Water Authorityfirst,and then, regionalboards under that,right? So, so
you're going to put structureand staffingto the Maui County Community Water
Authorityfirst,and then buildthe other regionalboards.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes, Chair,through ordinance.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any otherquestions.Members?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, there's going to, you're proposing then regional
community board. East Maui regional community first,concerned with Nahiku,
Ke'anae, Honomanu, and Huelo. And then what afterthat?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair Lee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Isthere any more afterthat,Mr. Sinenci,or isthisone just
East Maui?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, Member Sugimura, yes, we're just startingwith East
Maui. And then, as the other ones come online, the other regions willcome online as
they present themselves.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. And so, that'sundefined at thispoint?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes. Yes. Yes, we're justsettingup the, we're justsetting
up the structureat thismoment incase we want to expand it.And likeallof the, allof
the input that we got from community, Councilmembers that want to expand itto
differentregions,so we're settingup thatprocess today.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And inyour document you talkabout purchase of land or
Iguess budgets being designated by region. So how isthisbody gettingtheirfunding?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, the fund would be self-sustaining.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 169
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; From what? Is itfrom water fees in the area? So, allof
Kula'swater thatwe pay tothe County willthen be put inthis,it'scalleda Maui County
Community Water AuthorityFund. Isthat what you're,isthatwhat you'rethinking?
Flow willthisget funded?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: As discussed earlier,Member Sugimura, we're going aftera
lotof the infrastructuregrants that are availableout there as a source of income. We
don't have to fund itrightaway. So, we can work on gettingthose funds first.And
also, as some testifiershave mentioned, ifwe want to go ahead and pursue water rates
should,should thatbe,you know, one ofthe effortsinfundingthe,the new department.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, Ihave more questions. I'llwait.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Ifican tryclarifywhat Ithinkitmeans inthe
way realpeople talkand not the way thatit'swrittenlikehow lawyers make things. Is
itthat the firsttime when Mr. Baz was a resource to us and he said,oh, thisisa good
idea but you should set up the framework so thatallthe areas could take advantage
of it.And then, so thisisthat,what he was saying thattime when he wasn't testifying
on behalfof the Mayor, but as a resource? But then,you had already had the East
Maui Water Authoritythingand so itkind of combines the two where we're stillmoving
forward with the East Maui board because it'sneeded. There's a need for it.
But you brought inMr. Baz's recommendation thatsets up the framework forfolkslike
my community orwhoever else'scommunity by Charter can now setitup. But itdoesn't
set itup because maybe we'llsee how itgoes forEast Maui water,or regionalboard
firstand then, you know, lessons learned and so on and so forth.And meanwhile, as
a government entity,we can go afterthe Federal funds thatthose ladiesfrom the WIR
thatyou met talkedabout. Isthatkindofwhat thisisin,inrealpeople speak?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, thank you. Chair. That's correct,Member Paltin.The,
thislegislationhas definitelygrown. But ithas, because of the community inputand
because of some of the Councilmembers as well as, likeyou said,other departments
that wanted to see ifthiscan expand eitherto other departments and other regions.
So, that'swhy we're here tonight,to add on the,those regionalboards.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, inthat case, thank you foraccommodating our request.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 170
CHAIR LEE: I have a question, a follow-up question, Mr. Sinenci. So, the community
authorityoversees the regionalboards, right? So, the regionalboards are advisory to
the community authority,isthatright?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you for the question, Chair Lee. As these regional
boards come online, the boards willbe formed first,and then the board willchoose an
administratorforeach one of these regionalboards.
CHAIR LEE: You mean the, the regional boards willbe created before the overallauthority?
Okay.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, what I'm understanding Member
Sinenci saying, and this makes sense, that this maximizes home rule for each
community. What Isee inthe ASF isthateach regionalboard would choose, would
hirethe administrator.That administratorwould then propose a budget forthe stafffor
that area. So, the East Maui community isready to go. And, and thatwas the original
proposal of Member Sinenci.And so,withthe East Maui community, thatregionwould
set up theircommunity board. That community board would selectthe administrator.
That administrator would then hire staff. And that would be how itwould work under,
so there would be no centralwater authority.There would be no County centralwater
authority.
This isdecentralizing,justas when Member King was on the Board of Education and
she advocated fordecentralizingto maximize home rule,it'sthe same concept. So,
that,the budget foreach area would be presented by the administrator.And let'ssay
if,when West Maui isready to create theirwater authorityifthey would liketo,then
they would establishtheircommunity board. And that community board would be
established through ordinance. The Council would work with the community to
establishthatcommunity board. That community board inWest Maui would be West
Maui Regional Community Board and thatcommunity board would then selecttheir
administrator which would work for that water authority region. And they would have
theirown budget. And the--
CHAIR LEE: So, there's no-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That funding would then go into,the revenue from
those areas would then help to fund those systems with the additionof what Member
Sinenci issaying, outside Federal support, privatefoundations,other creativeways.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 171
And Iapplaud Member Sinenciforhis,hiscreativityinreallythinkingoutsideofthe box
to ensure thatwe are empowering the community's voices to the fullest.
Chair Lee, you were asking a question?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. But inthe ASF ittalksabout creatinga Maui County Community Water
Authority. And you're saying there,there's no centralwater authorityoverseeing the
regional boards. It'sjustthe regional boards, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right.
CHAIR LEE: Being created.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mhm.
CHAIR LEE: So, why would you use the word Maui County Community Water Authorityif,if
itdoesn't exist?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: As an umbrella for allthe regions.
CHAIR LEE: And ithas itsown staffand budget?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The Maui County Water Authoritydoes not have its
own staff.They do not oversee the regions. It'sthe community boards that oversee
the.the administrator.It'sthe community boards thatthe administratorisaccountable
to. Not to a directorof a centralizedsystem.
CHAIR LEE: Isee Member King has a question.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. That, Imean, Ijustasked thatquestion.
Iwas toldthere would be staffingand a structureforthe community water authority,
which iswhat Ithought we were creatingwith these, with these regionalboards, under,
you know, advising them or however you want to set itup. But the water, the
Community Water Authoritywould be the one to decide which ones, how we're going
to acquire, itsays righthere that the deliverysystems are,would be acquired by the
water authority.
So, now I'm reallyconfused because it,itdoesn't,itdoesn't seem likethere'sreallya
community water authority.How would we decide, how does the County decide when
the next one should be formed? Do we have to do another Charter amendment every
time we, we, Iwanted to ask Mr. Sinenci because earlieryou toldme thatthere would
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 172
be, that the Council would be settingup the staffingand structureof the, of the
Community Water Authority.So, there'sno Community Water Authority,itsounds like.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Well, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you, Member King. That's absolutely correct.
The authority,again, we're justsettingup thatframework. And as Imentioned earlier,
the Council has thatabilityto add staffas needed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but that'sto the, you're talkingabout add staffto the
community water authority?So, should we put a phrase inthere saying thatthe staffing
and structureof the community water authorityshallbe set inordinance by the County
Council? Because itsounds like,because Ithink, Ithink what we're talkingabout is,
is basically,you know, having that countywide water authoritythat would actually
establishthose boards and figureout what the next,next purchase would be, right,the
next water, water board would be?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, and itsays that at the beginning of the bill,as
necessary, under Section 8-19.1 Organization. There is a Maui County community
water authority,also referredto as the "water authority",consistingof one or more
regional community boards, regional administrators, and the necessary staffto
manage water collection,deliverysystems acquired-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right,but-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -and operated by the, by the water authority.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right,but allof those staff,those staffingpositionsgo to the
regional community board, so there'snothing that says anything about staffingthe
community water authority.That's my concern. So, ifwe put something inthere,like
there'sa Maui County community water authorityto be staffedin,in by ordinance or
something by the County Council, and one or more regional community boards.
Otherwise, there's reallynot a, a community water authority. So, I'm just really
confused, cause Ithought we were settingup a community water authorityand then
we’re going to go through and they'regoing to help identifythe,the variousboards in
the differentregions depending on what water systems we want to buy. Isthatwhat,
was thatthe originalintent? Imean, Ithinkthat'swhat Sandy Baz was talkingabout
when he said,you know, create the countywide.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 173
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Right. So, there,the necessary staffwould be forthe board,
the firstboard. And then, as the other regionalboards come online,then by ordinance
the Council will-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I under-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -you know, staffforthose. But-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Who's going to put them—
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -the necessary, the necessary staffthatwe have now would
be forthe water authorityforEast Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but then there's,there's really no community water
authority then? There's no office of a community water authority. There's no
administrator.There's no staffforthe community water authority.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, that would be-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we, can we ask-
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That would be the next-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we ask Mr, Raatz?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Raatz?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we ask Mr. Raatz?
CHAIR LEE; David, are you on the call?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Yes, thank you. Chair. Iwould just-
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Did you hear the question?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I did thanks.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 174
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES; Yeah. Thank you. I am reading this
proposal as grantingthe Council a fairamount of authoritythrough, for instance,its
annual budget power, itsabilityto create positions.Injustreading the firstproposed
section for Chapter 19, Section 8-19.1 Organization,that lastclause, ittalksabout
necessary staffto manage water collectionand deliverysystems acquired or operated
by the water authority. 1think that could be reasonably interpretedby the Council to
mean thatthe staffispurelyassigned to the East Maui Regional Community Board or
ifdeemed necessary to the umbrella entityof the Maui County Community Water
Authority.So, I,I'mreading itas providingflexibilityto the Council. You know, whether
that'sa good or bad thingisobviouslya policydecisionforthe Council.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. But that'sthe kind ofwhat I'mtryingto get at iswhat isthe
intent? Is the intentto, to leave everything up in the air,or is the intentto actually
create a Maui County Community Water Authority? Cause Ithought that'swhat we
were doing with thisnew substituteASF. But itkind of sounds likewe're justcreating
one board. Is that,is the intentto actuallycreate an entitycalled the Maui County
Community Water Authority?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. And let me add onto that too. I remember in the, a lotof testimony we
had tonight,yeah, said,oh we support the East Maui Water Authoritybut,you know,
we could go with the Community Water Authorityas well. So, in other words, the
bigger,the bigger umbrella authority.So, they saw thatas two distinctauthorities.And
the bigger authority,the overarching authoritywas the Maui Community Water
Authority. And, you know, some of us took itthatwas as well.
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you. Chair, forthe discussion. The originalintent
was, again justlikethe Department of Agriculture,to startoffsmall. And then, as we
add on regionalboards and get larger,then we'llinclude more staffby ordinance. But
if,ifthisbody wants to eitherinclude the language for specificstaffor would want to
add any additionalstaffingtonight,we're open to thatas well.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, did you have a followup question?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, yeah. Iguess, Iguess what, according to David Raatz, that
that lastphrase "necessary staffto manage water collectionand deliverysystems
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 175
acquired or operated by the water authority",means thatwe would be, we would need
to, the Council would need to delineate stafffor the actual water authoritythat'sgoing
to be acquiring these regionalsystems and then having the board, the boards operate
the new regionalsystems.
But ifwe're going to,Imean, my, my concern was ifwe're going to acquire them with,
you know, allthe taxpayers'money, then allthe taxpayers should have, you know, a
countywide entitythatthey can go to to understand why we're going inthisorder. You
know, why we're,why we're,idon'tknow, maybe the next thingwe'lldo isbuy Wailuku
Water Company or buy the,you know, water system on Molokai. But everybody should
understand why we're doing what we're doing ifwe're using,you know, the collective
countywide taxpayer dollars. So, that,thatwas my understanding of what we were
doing with the community water authority.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. The intentionof the originalproposal
wasn't to create another Department ofWater Supply. And itwasn't supposed to be a
top-down kindofapproach. It'ssupposed to be a bottom-up approach. The community
in Na Wai Eha have been very active.And I,Ihaven'tspoken to them about whether
they would be interestedinbe, informing a water authorityregionalcommunity board.
But thiswould put power intotheirhands. This would returnthe power, decision
making authorityto our communities.
And that,that was, that was the firstproposal with the East Maui Water Authority,in
creatingthatcommunity board to empower our communities likeallof the testifiers
testifiedto today. So, if,ifthe community in Na Wai Eha isinterestedin becoming a
water authority,they would have thatdecision making power to hirea water authority
administratorwho would manage and operate the system of Na Wai Eha ratherthan
justcreatinganother Department of Water Supply where there'sa directorthatwould
be nominated by the Mayor and then approved by the Council. It,it,itdoesn'tcreate
anything differentto empower the communities. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; What is the difference between the firstproposal and thisone
then, ifthere reallyisno community water authority?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; You didn'traiseyour hand.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci,are you going to answer thatone?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, again, the idea,the intentwas to startsmall.And then,
as we get largerafterwe go afterthe Federal funding,Imean, the intentwas for,to be
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 176
more fiscallyresponsible and not just pay for staffand we don't have any funding or
any of the grants onlinefirst.We wanted to pay foritas we acquire those grants. We
wanted to pay forthat extra staffafterreceivingfunding. And Ithink ifwe didn'tadd
the staffnow or we didn'tput specificstaffbecause we wanted justto add as, as we
builton. Now, the difference isthe regional,we're creatingthe structureto add regional
boards afterthe East Maui, the establishment of the East Maui Community Board.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can Ifollowup. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, that'swhat I’m tryingto understand, Member Sinenci,is
what is the structure? Because ifwe create that one regional board, how does the
next regional board get created? Does, who, do they, does somebody come to the
Council and propose it. What’s the entitythat would, would establish the next, you
know, because we only have one community board that we're establishing in this
Charter amendment. So, what, how would the next one get established? Ithought
thatwas through the water authority,the community water authority.But there isno
community water authority.It'spart of just,Ithink it'sdescript.. .descriptorforallof
these different boards. But I don't understand how we get to the next one ifthere'snot
an entitythat'slooking for that and figuringout, you know, what the next logical
community board would be. So, how would we get there?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Again, by Council ordinance. Itcould be initiatedby any of
the Councilmembers that represent another region,be initiatedby any one of us.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And then, we could, to startthat regional,we could share
some of the staffpriorto buildingup each regionalboard. So, we can share some of
the staffthatwe’ve already establishedwith the East Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. So, the, the idea of a community water authorityis not
reallyan entity.It'sjust,it'skind of a catch allphrase for,you know, allofthese different
regional boards together. Isthatwhat itis?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, we're establishingthatframework.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Member King-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 177
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ithink Ikind of get it.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. I might as well throw in my two cents on
this. Iwas kind of likeMember King, too, had thisvision of we're going to have this
Maui County Water Authority and then allthe other regional boards. Like, itwould
emanate from that. So, now, as the question's going to be framed, should thismove
forward,the question posed to the public,are we going to leave the word Maui County
Water Authoritysince there basicallyisn'tany? Or, Imean, I'msure we have the,the
first board that will be established is the East Maui. I'm just trying to get an
understanding cause we're definitelygoing to have to educate the public on this.
Cause ifwe're having a hard time, you know, understanding, you know, and I
appreciate my colleague from West Maui, realpeople talk,you know. That, to kind of
simplifyita littlebit.
So. cause I was under the impression we'd have thisseparate Maui County Water
Authority and then allthese various boards in the differentregions would be created,
would emanate from that authority,so. Okay. But Iappreciate the discussion to kind
of add some clarityhere because Ican justsee, you know, what Iwould be afraidof is
ifthe publicdoesn't understand it,they may not vote or they may vote no. Cause, you
know, it'shuman nature,yeah, ifyou don't understand something, you may vote no.
So, that'swhy it'simportant the educational aspect is reallyemphasized on this
particularCharter proposal. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: But can Iask why you used the term "Maui County Water Authority"?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Thank you, Chair. ... ifwe wanted to expand to the other
islands,likeMolokai,then itwould includethe greater Maui County.
CHAIR LEE: No, because, because in the Charter, Charter proposal provides for adding
differentregionalboards. So, why would you need to use the term "Maui County Water
Authority"?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: That was our originalname, but I'm open to changing it,as
Member Paltin,we can--
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: --emphasize community. But if.Members, ifyou wanted to
go ahead and add necessary staffor ifyou wanted to,thiswould be the time and we
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 178
could entertainany additionalamendments to the ASF ifyou wanted to go ahead and
and add the staff at this time.
CHAIR LEE; Before I call on Member Paltin, I do have a question. As you were talking,
Member Sinenci,you said,well,we'lljusthave the staffwork together. Imean, there
willbe, they are part of the executive branch now, right? They would be part of the
executive branch. They would be partof the legislativebranch?
Okay. Member Paltin,which branch are they a part of? You keep shaking, shaking
your head foreach one. So, where would they fall?Where would they fall?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Okay, realpeople talk,my understanding. You know, I
come from a community-based management background. And so, I believe that
Member Sinenci put Maui County because when you justsay "Maui",itonly appliesto
Maui Island,but ifyou say "Maui County", itencompasses allthe islands.But it’snot
Maui County Authority,it'sMaui County Community Authority. And so, it'slike,you
know, the grassroots approach where it'scommunity-based management. Not
completely, because the community would have to come to, like,theirlegislatureto
say, "hey, we want to do what East Maui got rightnow. They got a, they got a, or a
regionalwater authorityboard. We want that."So, then the Councilwould setthatup
by ordinance.
But Ithink Member Sinenci, in this one, the administrator reportsto the regionalboard,
so it'snot necessarilya partof the executive branch or the legislativebranch. They, it
reportsto a community, community based, Maui County Community Water Authority,
not, not reportingto the executive or the legislative,reportingto the community and
theirregionalboard.
CHAIR LEE: Where would they get theirfunding from? From the Council and, and the Mayor
too.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That's where everybody gets their funding from. County
money, unless they go out and get grants and the Federal money. Imean, or you can
raiseityourselfinthe public-privatepartnershipmodel. That alsooccurs incommunity-
based management non-profitorganization.
CHAIR LEE; I don't know. I see a lot of loose screws here.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So. do I.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 179
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, maybe the betterword foritisthere'snot a water authority
because there'snot a centralentity.So, maybe the betterword for itis"Maui County
Community Water System". Cause that'sreallywhat itis,it'sa system of smaller
boards, of regional boards. Is,ifthere's not a, an actual, I mean, I think that word
"water authority",that'swhat itevokes, isa, isan entity.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci,again,money ismy major concern. You know, you can give people
titles,but ifthey don't have the money to,to back up theirplans, then they reallydon't
have significantpower. Like,you know, you, initiallyyou talked about they would be
able to initiate condemnation and so forth. And condemnation is definitelya County
responsibility,it'snot a community responsibility.You know, we take on the liability
and, you know, we find the funding, yeah? We have to pay for the propertieswe
condemn. So, where isthat money coming from?
And they would have to have oversightby somebody, yeah? So, Idon'tsee thatpart,
you know, liningup in my mind and so that'swhy Ihave a hard time. But what threw
me tonightwas the community thing,because I heard the people say, okay, I initially
wanted the East Maui one, but I'llgo forthe community one now, you know, as ifthere
were two.
So, Vice-Chair,you had your hand up?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, Member King threw out an idea,
"systems". We could also do water authorities,multiple,and then thatway maybe it's
clear and then itdoesn't convey one centralone. So, if,I,Ithinkpartof the difficulty
is,ismaking ...thinkingthatthere was .. .one likeDepartment of Water Supply.
CHAIR LEE: You're kind of breaking up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aw. How about now?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, your signalisa littleweak that'swhy.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: We missed a lotof your earliercomments, Vice-Chair. Sorry
you can repeat before you got garbled.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Let me see ifI can get another device. Was that
clear?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, that was clear.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 180
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Did you hear about the, the idea of doing
water authorities?That part,was that clear?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Did you hear the part about, I think the
difficultyis making that leap from thinking that itwas a centralizedadministrative
system likeDepartment ofWater Supply? Did you hear that part? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Kind of.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And so, okay. So, making that leap from a central
water authorityto multiplecommunity-based regional authorities.So, Maui County
Community Water Authoritiesperhaps isan idea.
Inthe amendment, Ilooked for,you know, the power to exercise eminent domain, and
it'sno longer inthisproposal. So, ifthatwas one of your concerns. Chair Lee, then I
thinkMember Sinenci addressed your concern there. So, it's,it'sno longerinthisdraft,
that power would residewithinthe Council. Was thatclear?
CHAIR LEE: That's,yeah, thatwas clear.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And then, I,IlikethatMember Sinenci added
on page, what isthat,page 6,thatitfurtherclarifiesone ofthe issuesthatMs. Thomson
brought up in Committee about where the jurisdictionof the Department of Water
Supply startor ends and where the water authoritiesjurisdictionwould begin. And so,
itamends Chapter 19 to state,"Except as set forthinChapter 19,the Department of
Water Supply shallmanage and operate allwater systems owned by the County". And
so, itprovides foran exception here,where ifthe water system ...under the regional
water authority,then the Department ofWater Supply would not have jurisdictionover
thatwater system. So, that,thatclarifies,Ithink.Member Sinenciand histeam worked
reallyhard to address a lotof the concerns thatwere brought up inCommittee.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, the regional, 8-19.5 Regional Administrator,Powers,
Duties, and Functions. So, this regional administratorwould be one per whatever
region isdeveloped or decided on, right? So, thisone thatwe're talkingabout isone
for East Maui, correct? Yeah? And then, so ifthere's another one thatcomes up, it'll
have allof these duties, or that person would have allthese regionaladministrator
powers, duties and functions,which are 16 of them, right?And itwould be justtailored
to whatever regionitis,correct? That'syour concept?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 181
So, by lookingat this,what differencedoes thishave incomparison to Board of Water
Supply orwhat the ...the department isdoing because it'sa lot.Acquire water system,
leases to be managed by the water authority,includingEast Maui water licenses. 1
can read itall,but you allhave it.Negotiate purchase agreements. Oversee water
leases. Seek funding for water system operations, maintenance, and capital
improvements. Manage the distributionof water under the controlof water authority,
includingprovidingwater to the Department of Water Supply. This iskind of huge. It's
likeyou're developing a new department. So, are you anticipatingto get ridof the
Department of Water Supply?
Imean, the powers and dutiesare pretty,prettypowerful fora authoritythatis,1thought
would be making recommendations, a voice from the,from the community. But this
sounds likewe need to have a budget, thatthe community needs to know before they
vote on this,how much isitgoing to cost them. And iknow you're saying it'sgoing to
go out and findother grants and that'sgood. But you startthisoff,you must have an
idea of how much you're planning on paying people or how much the rentis,or just
kind of basic stufflikethat. And then, going intoallof this,likemaintaining the system
and CIP. I mean, thisis like,thisis kind of huge, right,versus just a voice from the
community. That'swhat you are planning? So, you have a budget? You have a fiscal
idea of how much thisisgoing to cost us?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl; Thank you. Thank you. Chair. And yeah, thank you forthe
question.Member Sugimura. And you'renot inmy, my APT Committee, but inthe last
two months, we've been going all,allthrough the budget. We've had allof these rural
community people come on and talkabout what kinds of grants are availableout there.
And as you know, with Senator Schatz, with the, we've got a quick timeline,a
turnaround offiveyears to even apply forsome ofthese infrastructurefunds presented
by the Biden Administration.
So, those were and, and the main, the catalystwas that a lotof the privatesystems,
includingthe current lessee cannot, would not be able to apply for some of these
government grants thatare only availableto the County, government agencies,as well
as our County bond rating.So, we could also use, as a, as a County entity,we could
go ahead and use the County bond ratingfor any CIP projectsshould we go ahead
and acquire private systems.
So, again, allof these changes, and you brought up an importantquestion,these
changes thatwe made, includingwhat Member Keani Rawlins-Fernan dez mentioned
in number one, the "Except as set forthin chapter 19,the department ofwater supply
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 182
shallmanage and operate allwater systems owned by the county". So, these systems
that we're talkingabout would be those systems that the, the only the water authority
would go out and acquire.
And then,we did have Mr. Agawa mention to us today thatit'snot the waters thatare
being, that isprocessed at the plants. This isallthe raw water thatwillbe sent to the,
the water facilities,the department of water facilities.So, that'sthe big,thisis raw
water, not water that isbeing to our customers. So, that'sthe big differenceto your
question about the water authority,what theirdutiesare and what the Department of
Water Supply does. They, they would only manage the current community owned
system. Excuse me, the County owned system.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We would only manage the County system? Ithought you
were going to say non-County system ifit'snot going to be processed water.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Correct. Sorry about that. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Not, it'snot County, it'sprivateacquisitionof Na Wai Eha
for example, an example. Is that what your, that'swhat thisbody willdo? Look for
other sources of water?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Correct. That's correct.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I'm a little,gettingmore confused. So, you're saying that
this is not County owned water? Ithought these were likeindividualCounty water
authorities,community water authorities,so?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, I, I meant I was answering Member Sugimura's
question about the differencebetween the Department of Water Supply and the water
authority.What the Department of Water Supply does ismanage the County system.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, the County system.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: The water authority,the water authoritywould be managing
those systems where they'reprivateor leased from the State. Those, those systems
are not currentlymanaged by the Department of Water Supply. The water authority--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -would be doing that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 183
COUNCILMEMBER KING: But they wouldn't,but they wouldn't be privatesystems would
they? They would stillbe County systems because we're, we're leasing them with
County money. So, they would be County systems, but they would be differentCounty
systems than what the Water Department manages. And I don't,I think the other
differenceisthatthe Water Department doesn't go out and acquire,or hasn't,Imean,
maybe they should have, we wouldn't have gotten to thispoint. But,you know, they
haven'tgone out and acquired leases of otherentities.They haven’t,you know, we've
talked about it. We've talked about EMI. We've talked about buying Wailuku Water
Company, but nothing has happened. And so, thisistryingto get something likethat
to happen. Imean, we could,we could have triedto charge our own Water Department
with doing it,but we'd have, probably have to buildthem up with allthese same type
of people. So, we're justdoing itas a separate entity.
But I do stillthink that the, you know, I thought, I think what we allthought the
community water authoritywas supposed to be isnot,that'snot what itis.So, Ithink
we've got to make that more transparent, so people understand that there'snot a
countywide authority.Ithinka lotof people who were testifyingthought thatthat’swhat
thatwas as well. So, maybe ifwe, ifwe change itto,you know, Idon'tknow, Maui
County Community Water Board System or something likethat,or water systems, it
may, it,it's,it'smore in linewith what we're tryingto do here.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Iappreciate the discussion. And I,my
firstquestion, and Councilmember Shane Sinenci touched on it,as how many
meetings have we had on this? Itseems likewe've discussed thisquiteforsome time.
The other thing is,is Ithinkthe mechanism for allof those grants that we're talking
about and allofthese fundings would be the,the authority.Then thatway, itwould be
likethe mechanism to receive allof those grants. And Ithinkthat is,Iwouldn't want
to. I'dbe weary to change that,because a lotof those other presentationsin,in his
Committee we're talkingabout thisishow small communities get theirfunds. And if
we, ifwe make this reflectmore of likejust smaller boards, itmight mess with the
funding mechanism forthem to get allthose funds that,that in other ways thatthe
financialswould flow intoit.So, Idon't.I'mjustkind of leeryof changing it.But Ialso
see likeyeah, ifyou don'tchange it,then it'djustbe a bunch of boards and then they
wouldn't be able to get any of those funds, you know. We don'twant to tietheirother
hands so.
CHAIR LEE: You know, Mr. Sinenci, Ithink Mr. Johnson raises a good pointinthat,although
he probably won't agree with me, but a good point in that when you talked about
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 184
borrowing money, floatingbonds, yeah, then you're using the fullfaithand creditof the
County. And so, these people, the advisory board folks,cannot go out on theirown
and borrow money backed by the County ifthey are an independent body.
So, infact,I,I'dbe surprised ifthey can get grants without any financialfoundation. If
there,iftheirsalariesand so forthare coming from the County and they have no other
money, no other source of money because they haven't acquired any systems yet,I'm
not sure how they would get grants. You know, a lot,a lotof what they are able to do
willbe based on how much the County backs them up.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Exactly. And so, it'sthe administrator
and the administrator'sstaffthat would be doing that work and would propose the
budget. The, likethe, itwould stillneed to be worked with the Finance Director,and
then the budget would be proposed to the Council. The Council would stillhave that
authorityto approve budgets. So, allofthose proposals,justlike,you know, we talked
about receivinggrants,itwould be, itwould need to be recognized inthe budget.
The administrator and the administrator's staff,so the administrator could hire grant
writers.Those would allbe County employees. So, the community board would select
the administrator. And the administrator would be a County employee, just likethe
Fire Chief and the Police Chief and the Department of Personnel Services Director,
where civilservicehiresthatperson. So, we have thismodel thatexistsalready.And
they'reCounty employees. And as the heads of those regionalwater authorities,the
administratorwould hirethe necessary staffin order to carryout the duties,functions,
and responsibilitiesof thatwater authority.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, I can see that. However, it'svery similarto creating another water
department. Right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: , . .
CHAIR LEE: Because the money willbe, because the budget willbe provided by the County,
so our taxpayers, the employees willbe County employees. And they willbe overseen
by, Iwould imagine volunteer regional board members. Right? And then, even the
administratorwillbe paid by the County.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right,
CHAIR LEE: So, I'm-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 185
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ: But the difference between these authorities and the
Department of Water Supply isthatthe administrator,which would be the head of the
regionalauthority,would be selected by the community board and not by the Mayor.
Department of Water Supply is selected by the Mayor. And so, the Department of
Water Supply would carryout the goals and directionthatthe Mayor isproposing.
Additionally,communities have been able to successfullysecure grantfundingthrough
private foundations. The Molokai community has successfully shown that to be
possible inorganizingitscommunity.
CHAIR LEE: Ithinkthose are good ideas. Ijustfeelthat,you know, we need to have a better
handle on the fiscalimpact of thisinvestment, which isvery significant.And so, you
know, Ifeelitwould be wonderful ifwe could get a feasibilitystudy so thatwe have, so
we know how much weTe reallytalkingabout.
Because I’ve,I'veheard, and for example. I'veheard thatthe purchase of EMI could
be upwards of $50 million,okay? $50 millionbecause you have to remember thisisa
very expensive system and much ofthe lands are not allstate-owned lands. A lotof it
isprivatelands. So, these lands need to be condemned and then we pay market-value
for ailof these lands. These lands could extend 10, 15, 20 miles of land. So, let'ssay
it'supwards of,and thisisnot counting repairsand maintenance, thisisjustpurchase.
And by the way, it'snot forsale,so we would have to condemn it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, all,allof this isspeculation.And that’sone of
the duties and functions of the administrator to do thiswork. Any, any speculated
quotes thatanyone gives would likelyassume thatthe water leases would belong to
that other entityand not to the County. And the County istryingto acquirethe water
leases through DLNR. That'swhere the value of the water,that'swhere the value of
the system is,inthe water. And so, whoever has the water leases has the value ofthe
system, and then thatwould be retainedby the County.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we might have the leases, but you have to have the system inorder to
transportthe water. So, that'swhy I'msaying,you know-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And Chair-
CHAIR LEE: -DLNR doesn't own EMI.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. I know that Member Sugimura isnot partof
the APT Committee. And in the last APT Committee, we did have former Board of
Water Supply Chair Shay Chan Hodges, which did speak to a lotof the financingon
this. And we did ask if she would serve as resource when thisitem comes up. So,
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 186
she's been doing a lotofwork on the financingpart.So, ifany ofthese questions you'd
liketo ask her, she's also available here for-
CHAIR LEE: Well, Iwas at the meetings. Iwas at the meetings.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But Member Sugimura wasn't,so Iwas justletting
Member Sugimura know thata lotofthese questions,ifshe does have. Ms. Shay Chan
Hodges ... elaboratingon.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. As to Member King'spoint,Iwas wondering
how the Members feltas a more descriptiveterm, Maui County Community Water
Authority Framework. Cause it'snot, then itfitswhat we're tryingto set up is the
framework. That's more-
CHAIR LEE; Iknow that's,thatsounds likea work in progress. Imean, don'tyou want to--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Well, that's-
CHAIR LEE; Ikind likesystems myself.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, okay. But that'swhat itis,it’sa work in progress because
thisjust,cause you can't,you need the Charter amendment. That'swhat Mr. Baz' point
was when Member Sinenci triedto propose the East Maui Water Authority. He said,
you know, and then ifitworks out well then, every place that wants one isgoing to
have to go back and make another Charter amendment, Charter amendment. So, this
isjustsettingup the framework so thatevery time another region wants an authority,
they don't need to go back and make another Charter amendment. There's stillchoke
more steps that needs to be happen, like,things need to be set up by ordinance. But
we can do ordinance, or legislationyear-round. We're not likethe State or whatever.
But the Charter amendment part only comes when there'san election.So, that'swhy
we're settingup the framework and there isstillplenty more steps, so-
CHAIR LEE; Why don'twe check with everybody.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, okay.
Then we can get that out of the way. Does everybody like the wordCHAIR LEE;
'framework"?
One, two, three-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 187
COUNCILMEMBER KING; . . .that works for me, either framework or systems. But it'skind
of the same thing.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You know what, let's,let'skind oftake care of that.And Mr. Sinenci,you
can change it.Because ifwe're going to spend our time thislateon a Friday night
discussing things,letitbe deeper than justthe title,okay. Let itbe deeper.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Chair. Since you're pollingeveryone. Ilike
Maui County Community Water Authorities.
CHAIR LEE; Three. Four. Four, you got four. The other one had five.Framework had five.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah and, and thank you, Member Paltinfor,and itis,itisa
framework, but we anticipatethatthe framework willeventuallybe buildinto,to the
pointwhere itwillbecome community water authorities.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Do you, how much does systems get? Let'spoll
systems? Maui County Community Water AuthoritySystems?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. One, two, three,four,five,I'llsay six;myselfsix.We have to move on,
folks.Okay, you guys, let'schange itto systems and then talkabout a littlebitmore
substantive matters so we can actuallyvote on thisand move onto page 3,how's that?
Okay, so the word issystems. So, Mr. Sinenci,you would have tomake the changes
wherever itwould apply, yeah.
Okay, anymore questionson this,Members? Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, numbers of8-19.2,Regional Community Boards. And
ifyou go number 3.justbecause of the discussion.So, Iwould recommend thatthe
Department ofManagement willprovidestaffing,technicalassistance,clericalservices
required by the board untilsuch time as necessary staffishired.Itfeelsmore likea
Department of Management thing ratherthan Corp. Counsel . . . Corp. Counsel’s
guidance.
CHAIR LEE: Which number are you talkingabout? 8-19.3,number 3?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 188
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So ifyou go 8-19.2 under Regional Community Board.
Then, you go down to number 3, item 3 at the bottom of the page.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, Isee. Isee.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; And itsays, the Department of,yeah. Isay delete Corp.
Counsel-
CHAIRLEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; -provide staffingwhatever-
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Sinenci,did you check with the Corp. Counsel? They said,okay?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah. Sorry, Chair. Yes, we did speak with them.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; And they were . ..
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; -you check with them? They're on the callnow, right?
Can you ask them?
CHAIR LEE; He said thatthey,he checked with them, right?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I trust that he checked with them. I don't have to have
them come onlineand say that.But Idon'tthinkwe should change thatpiece because
then we would have to go back and check with the Managing Directorand thatmight
be a huge thought process for him to consider. So, I ratherjust,ifyou've already
checked with Corp. Counsel, Iratherjustleave itthe way itis.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. They're probably going to need a lotof legalhelp anyways. The right
department. Anything else?
Oh, Isee Keota Whittaker. You got any questions forCorp. Counsel?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL KEOLA WHITTAKER; Chair, Richelle had to step
away. Iknow she had concerns about that portion,but she justhad to step away.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 189
CHAIR LEE: Well, what concerns did she have?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: I understand that she had concerns
about the staffing,being able to staffthe department. ..staffthe administrators.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, thank you forthat clarification.We did speak to her.
She did have concerns. She said itwas temporary that we could utilizeCorporation
Counsel. And Isee Ms. Lutey on.
CHAIR LEE: Moana Lutey. Ms. Lutey?
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Yes, thank you. Sorry, I was also on the
phone. I,we do have concerns about the staffingaspect ofit.We are shortsecretaries
rightnow. We are inthe process of hiringattorneysso,you know, itwould be a stretch
forus to be also covering this...issue.
CHAIR LEE: Any other suggestions. Members?
Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Just for clarification.As Ms. Thomson
said, we would possiblyjust need them for our firstmeeting untilwe can get staff
onboard.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Lutey? Ms. Lutey? Moana Lutey? Corp. Counsel?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: I'm here. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We're talkingabout one meeting?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: I think one meeting would be fine,you know? We're always
willingto help,so Idon'twant to make itseem as though we're not happy to help out
when we can. It'sjustthe long-term aspect of itiswhat's concerning to me.
CHAIR LEE: Isee your Deputy isthere. Shallwe callon her?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: She's concerned too.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Deputy Thomson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 190
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL RICHELLE THOMSON: One of the things that
might work, ifthere'ssome reluctance to assign thatto Management, istojustremove
who's providingclericalsupport and thattype of thing and do that by ordinance later
on.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,do you want to remove that provisionthen, Mr. Sinenci? Mr. Sinenci,
are you takingnotes on allyour changes? Huh? We changed the name. We changed,
changing that number 3, the Department of Corporation, you're going to delete that
and then justpass an ordinance to cover that later? Isthatwhat you said?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yes. Yes. Chair. We're taking notes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Ithinkthat'sa good idea. Maybe they,maybe they won't
meet untilthey hirethe necessary staff.That seems to be what's happened with our
advisory committees, you know. They haven'tmet untilthey get the staff.
But my, one of my questions is,you know, the paragraph above says, the Directorof
Water Supply, the Councilmember holding residency area seat for the applicable
watershed area, so what about the,the jurisdictionsthat are actually,thatmight not be
inthe exact watershed area but are utilizingthe water from thatwater system? Like,
you know, we talked about Upcountry area.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. For the,the board members, you get two
seats on--
CHAIR LEE: Put your hand down.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: --on the,on the Water AuthorityBoard, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The board members? What was that?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: The, the districtarea gets two board members from that,from
that area.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: What district area?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 191
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Where the water is.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Where the water isbeing utilized,or where the water--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Correct,yes. Sorry. Where the water isbeing used.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Cause there'san actualwatershed where the water comes
from, but then there's the areas that the water isdeliveredto. So, your, you're including
the, the areas where the, that are actuallyusing the water from the actual system?
Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Molina, you look likeyou have a question.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No. Not yet. Just tryingto digest everything that'sbeen
discussed here. I'll,go ahead, you can continue discussion. I'll,Imay have something
to ask later.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
One of our spectators textedVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
suggesting forthe name, instead of Maui County, since County can be, you know, the
geographical area or itcan be the,the government, to use Maui Nui Community Water
Systems. So, we'llkeep the systems, but instead of County, replace itwith Nui, Maui
Nui Community Water Systems.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Less governmental, huh?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: How many votes? How many votes? Who's infavor? One, two, three,well
you got it.You got it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: People talk,yeah?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 192
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo to the community fortexting.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else? Anything else? Otherwise, we're going to move onto the vote.
Ready, everybody? Alright.But do you want the changes in writingbefore we vote?
Maybe-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Maybe, maybe, Member Sinenci,you could justitemizethe changes verbally.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Yes? Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Can we justask the staffifthey got ailthose changes we were
talkingabout?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Staff,did we get allthose changes writtendown? They went home
already. Staff? Kathy?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Staff?
CHAIR LEE: Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Ididn'tget it.
CHAIR LEE: You didn'tget it?
COUNTY CLERK: I didn't.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: David. Maybe David got it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: In the chat.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Oh, it'sinthe chat.Yeah, thank you. Chair.
We had Maui Nui Community Water Systems. And the second one was no Corporation
Counsel for,as temporary staff.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Only two? Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 193
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Are you deleting that paragraph, or you justtaking out
Corp. Counsel's name?
CHAIR LEE: No, deletingthe paragraph.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Okay. That's what Ithought.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, so we asked them, since we're changing itto Maui Nui
Community Water Systems, we're asking them to go through the document and
change the name wherever the community water authority.So, itwould be, it,we're
leaving itup to staffto do that,those changes. Right? To go through the document
and change the name where--
CHAIRLEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -appropriate. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The regionalwater authoritieswould
remain water authorities. Just the-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member King, Ihave the floor.Okay. So, justwhere
itsays, where itused to say, Maui County Community Water Authoritywould be
replaced with the Maui Nui Community Water Systems. And then, if,where itsays,
Maui County Community Water Authority,in the next section,itwould be replaced
there. But where ithas the regional authorities,then itwould, itwould stay regional
authorities.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, that'swhat Iwas saying. Anywhere inthe document where
itsays, community water authority,iswhere we're going to make the change, because
that'sinthe titleand itsthroughout the document. So, that'swhat Iwas referringto.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anymore Members? So, I'llgo back to you Mr. Sinenci,forthe motion.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 194
In the, the funding section, toVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
simplify,Iput itinthe chat, allor a portionof the revenues of the water authoritymay
be transferredto a regional authorityfund which may be used for regionalwater
authority.And that addresses the concern that Mayor Emeritus Arakawa brought up
in histestimony and gives itmore flexibility.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. David, are you stillon the call? David?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And ifyou want to take that after,take thatup after
thisvote, I'm also happy to do itthen, as well.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, when, when itcomes to substitutions,it'shandled a littledifferently.You
can'tkeep making changes, right?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Well-
CHAIR LEE: Well, you can?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Ifyou want to followRobert'sstrictly,that's
correct. But as we've noted a few times this term, there isan allowance forinformality
for small boards, and this Council meets the criteria.So, you know, unless the County
Clerk has any objections,we're able to understand what the body isdoing rightnow, I
think.I'vebeen toldby our staffthatwe've been keeping tabs and we understand, and
we'llbe able to,ifthisproposal moves forward, incorporatewhat the body's agreed to
thus far. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so that,would that mean taking the vote on the substitutionand then
multipleamendments to that?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. Not necessarily.Imean,
we're under the impression perhaps that maybe Councilmember Sinenci would be in
effectrevisinghis proposed motion to substituteto incorporatethese elements that
have been endorsed by the body. And that,that'sone approach. And you, you know.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'stake that cause that'seasier. That'seasier.Why don'twe do that?
So, go ahead, Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 195
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Just before I do that,going back to the
second one, strikethe Department of the Corporation, oh, 3, the Department of the
Corporation Counsel willprovide staffing,technicalassistance, and clericalservices
required by the board untilsuch time as necessary staffishired. Can we put inOCS
staff?
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I,Ithink the Corporation Counsel's
idea of puttinginordinance lateris,isgood and then thatway we can address itatthat
time,instead of at 9;20 the nightthatitneeds to pass firstreading. And then,we can,
you know, ... allthatout at that,and itdoesn't have to be inthe Charter.
CHAIR LEE; Ithinkthat'sa good idea. Mr. Sinenci,you agree?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, that'sfine.Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Okay. So, you'rewithdrawing your motion tosubstitutefornow untilyou
get the whole listof things. You have the whole listof thingsready to go, plusthe last
one that Vice-Chair added?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Chair, we do have itin the chat.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Allof it?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Should itbe as a friendlyamendment to my motion to replace
Maui Nui, the titlewith Maui Nui Community Water Systems; and strikenumber 3,the
Department of Corporation Counsel willprovide staffing,technicalassistance,clerical
services required l3ythe board untilsuch time as necessary staffishired;and under
Section 8-19.6,Maui County Community Water, allor a portionofthe revenues ofthe
water authoritymay be transferredto a regionalwater authorityfund,which may be
used forthe regionalwater authority.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, everybody clearon those changes? Any lastcomments, questions?This
is itfolks.
Okay, Member Paltin,isthata halfa wave or hand? No? Okay. Guys ready? Ready
for the vote?
Okay, Madam Clerk,rollcall.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 196
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE; EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 197
COUNTY CLERK: That'ssix"ayes",two "noes",and one "excused".
CHAIR LEE; Motion carries.
Okay, next item.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, am I.am Ifrozen?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay, mahalo, Chair,
motion as amended.
believe we're on the main
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Ididn'tthinkwe had to do thatwith a substitution.Okay, main motion
as amended. Allthose, rollcall. Roll call.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Itlooks like Member Sinenci has some comments.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Real quick, sorry. And I did want to address Member
Johnson. So, Members, we've had 15 meetings on the water system. Three ofthose
meetings were focused specificallyon Na Wai Eha and the Wailuku Water System.
Three of those meetings were on the Board of Water Supply TIG reportand their
recommendations. Five meetings were on the East Maui. And sixmeetings were on
establishinga Water Authority,the firststartingwith East Maui. We've also had six
meetings on the water system financing,where we had those expertscome in,as well
as sixmeetings, specificallyon the proposed water authorityCharter amendment.
When we, we found thatwhen we reallyengage with our community and listentothem,
we have allthe, these changes that we proposed tonightto the legislation.We had
our last meeting this Tuesday and heard from our community, from other
Councilmembers, and our attorneys as well. So, in response to that,we have clarified
a lotof the language tonightand also given the board or community more inputinto
thiswater authority.And Iappreciate Councilmembers support. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any other?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 198
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Ijustwanted to express my gratitudeto
Member Sinenci,you know, for incorporatingallthe feedback. And, and, and you
know, Itotallywould've understood justrunning with the East Maui Authority,because
of how long they'vebeen fightingand, and how much itmeans to everyone. But and,
and Isee why a lotof people don't,because of allthe screws here on the screen and
how difficultitisto get everyone on the same page. But Ijustwanted to,you know,
express extreme gratitudefortakingeverybody's feedback and incorporatingitintothis
billand givingus alla chance to,todetermine our own futureinterms ofwater,because
water islife.And without it,you know, we wouldn'teven be able to live.So, thank you
so much.
CHAIR LEE; Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo Member Sinenci, allthe
community members who invested such a . . . To Gina, I hope you get to restafter
this. I know you've worked reallyhard on this. Everyone inthe community, allthe
testifiersthat came out in support, you know, I,the warriorsthat'sbeen fightingto
advance thiswork foryears and Member Sinenci,forgivingthem a strongvoice. I
want to quickly echo, in closing words of Ms. Pahukoa earlier,voting,yes, will
rehabilitatea fracturedsystem. Voting yes, willempower our people. Mahalo. Ifully
support the motion as amended. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Ialso riseinfullsupport ofthe motion as
amended. Ican only echo what my other Councilmembers are saying and say thank
you to Councilmember Shane Sinenciforhisdue diligence,hishard work. Water isa
publictrustdoctrine.Water isa rightforour people.
Iwas a former farmer. IfIdidn'thave water formy crops,Iwouldn'thave been able to
feed the people of Lanai. There's a very specificplace on Lanaithatwe foughthard
for water for it,the LWAC, the Lanai Water Board. They, they triedtheirdarndest to
get water rightsfor the folksof Lanai. Folks likeRon McOmber who passed away
fightingforour water rights.Folks likeJohn Ornellaswho passed away fightingforour
water rights.Folks likeButch Gima. Folks likethe Dela Cruz's.
There's been people fightingforthese water rightsforso long. And some of those
warriorsthatwere mentioned, they'regone already. So, thisislikewhat the testifiers
came, they brought theirchildrenin.This iswhat thisisabout.So, mahalo everybody
who's been involved in the past, and inthe present, and inthe futureforthis.So, it's
a great day. Mahalo Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 199
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. You know, my preference
was to have kept itmore simple,juststay withthe East Maui proposal. But then,when
the countywide proposal came in,itsortof added more screws, as Member Paltinhad
mentioned earlier,and Iguess figuratively.So, again, I,Iwant to . . .that assuming
thismoves forward,thatthe educational component isout there so the publicdoesn't
get a misunderstanding thatwe may be, we may be looked at as duplicatingservices.
Cause likeIsaid before,ifpeople don'tunderstand something, they'reeithernot going
to vote or they'regoing to vote no.
So, it'scertainlya big step forward in terms of empowering people with a resource
that'salways been looked at as a public trust. So, I did my reservationson the
amendment was justbased, again, on not understanding. But now, as Isee it,it's
more likea mechanism that'sbeen put inplace to allow otherpotentialregionalboards
that could occur inthe County. So, allI'm going to say, thisisgoing to be one of the
more interestingCharter amendment proposals and we're going to see a lotoffolks
coming out on the other side as well. So, stay tuned. It'sgoing to be a,going to be a
rideinthiselectionwhen itcomes to thisproposal and some ofthe others.
And I want to thank, Mr. Sinenci. You know, we put him through the meat grinder
tonight.But,you know, he'salways been a good, patient,understandingperson. So,
Iwant to thank you foryour proposal and forbeing patientwiththose of us who had a
lotof questions or maybe didn'tquite dearly understand the,the amendments. So,
thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'lltryto be brief,because Ithinkeverybody expressed where
we're at. I'mreallyhappy thatwe're affordingthe people of Maui a chance to vote on
this,on the ballot,it's,was a littleconfusing to me because Ihad a differentimpression
of what the Countywide Water Authoritywas going to be. So, and that'sthe partwe
didn'thave a lotof discussion on. Itwas justkind of came up towards the end. But I
thinkthe way we changed itismore explanatoryto people,what we'retryingtodo and
the system thatwe're creating.
And ido thinkit'sa long time coming. Ihope we have help from the State,whoever
our next Governor is. And I'm, I'm just,I think it's,it'ssomething thatwe heard loud
and clearfrom the publicthatthey want on the ballotthisyear. So, agree withMember
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 200
Molina that we need to make sure that the, there's clarityin the explanation of this
Charter amendment so thatpeople don'tfeel,they feelcomfortable with it,you know,
to vote on it.So, that'sall.
Thank you so much, Mr. Sinenci. You put a lotof work intothis.And you listenedto
a lotof people, justlikeyou did with the Water Use Development Plan. So, I,Iwas,
the onlythingthatkind of bothered me was people saying,well,we knew nothingabout
this. And we've been working on itfor so long, Ijust,Idon't understand how nobody
not know about it.But! don't know, maybe we need to do a betteroutreach justas a
Council on the whole. But that'sall.Just reallythankfulfor--
CHAIR LEE: Does anybody--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -point.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: So, I-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, Ithinkyou're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Iam going to maintain my vote. But I,Iam concerned, as
Isaid earlier,that there isthe feasibilityside of thisand what isitgoing to cost. And
as you can tell,you know, it'sgoing to cost the taxpayers. Ifyou go out and get grants
. . . it'sgoing to startoffwith the County of Maui. And Ithinkthatwe owe itto our
taxpayers so they understand what the cost is. Even ifit'ssome basic amount, Ithink
we, you know, we went through thiswith Department of Ag forbasics. And here we
are today with a, you know, completely differentamount. But at leastwe knew what
the basics were on that. And Ithinkthatthisisprettybroad and isbeing talkedabout
generally. So, Iam going to maintain my vote of no. And again,my bigconcern isthat
Iwant to make sure thatUpcountry, which isso susceptibleby the impacts ofthe East
Maui Irrigationand a lotofthisdiscussion, Ijustwant to make sure thatthey have water
before we take a giantstep forward and change things. So, that'smy concern.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And formy remarks, Ijustwant to say thatIwish Icould vote yes,
but Iwillbe votingno. Primarilybecause Iagree with Member Sugimura thatwe should
have done a feasibilitystudy, a fiscalanalysis before takingthiskind of undertaking,
creatingan entitywithoutthe proper resources and funding,and, and the analysisthat
should go with itis. Itmakes me very skepticalbecause thisisa huge investment on.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 201
I'm talkingabout monetary investment on the part of the County, and could,we could
also incura lotof liability.So, we should have done our due diligencefirst.
So, ready forthe vote,Members? Rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember, Council Pro Temp
Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 202
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
COUNTY CLERK; That's six"ayes",two "noes' one "excused": motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Very good, Mr. Sinenci.
Okay, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, can we get a dispositionfor the County Communication 22-151?
That was the subject of the ASF.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sinenci.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-151.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,tofile
the matter. Any discussion? Ifnot, allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 203
CHAIR LEE: All"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused"; Member Kama.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next item.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-57NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
entitled "PROPOSING ANRecommending that Resolution
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 8 OF ARTICLE 8 OF THE REVISED CHARTER OF
22-144. CD1
THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH PLANNING
COMMISSIONS FOR ALL COMMUNITY PLAN AREAS ON MAUI AND DISSOLVE
THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS RESOLUTION 22-144, CD1, ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to pass thisResolution
22-144, CD1, on firstreading.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on June? and June 15 todiscuss Resolution
22-144, which would place on the next General Electionballotthe question ofwhether
the Charter should be further amended, effectiveJuly 1, 2023, to establish a Maui
County Planning Commission, establishplanning commissions forallcommunity plan
areas on Maui, and dissolve the Maui Planning Commission.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 204
Your Committee notes the idea of individualplanning commissions has been
discussed by priorCouncils to provide a stronger voice for communities regarding
development occurring intheirareas.
Your Committee furthernotes thatthe proposed Charter amendment would promote
home ruleinland use and planning by givingeach of Maui's six community plan areas
itsown planning commission.
And your Committee discussed the Charter Commission's proposal to requirethe Maui
Planning Commission to have representation from each Maui community plan area;
allow for Kalaupapa to be included within the jurisdictionof the Molokai Planning
Commission upon State action; and to also clarifythe order of community plan
development; and set a 10-year deadline forthe review of allcommunity plans.
And your Committee noted that thisproposal would amend the same Charter section
as a Charter Commission proposal, that itis not uncommon for multipleproposals
amending the same Charter section be on the same ballot.
Your Committee notes all successful Charter amendments must be read in harmony
with each other,as has happened throughout the County's history. Except when the
Charter Commission and the Council have competing alternativesunder Chapter 50,
Hawaii Revised Statutes, in which cases, in which case only the proposal with the
largestnumber ofvotes isgiven effect.The County Clerk isotherwise empowered and
obligated to give effectto each proposed Charter amendment that receives a majority
vote.
And excuse me, I need water after that last item. Your Committee notes legalaction
has not been required in the past to determine how to incorporate approved Charter
amendments intoan updated Maui County Charter aftera General Election,and it's
not required here.
And your Committee noted that the addition of the Hana Advisory Committee, the
Council approved the creationof the South Maui Advisory Committee and Paia-Haiku
Advisory Committee to the Maui Planning Commission by Ordinance 5210, but they
do not have decision-making authority.
We're almost there.Members. Your Committee agreed to amend Resolution 22-144
to no longer establish a Maui County Planning Commission; remove redundancies;
clarifythe powers, duties,and functions of planning commissions for allcommunity
plan areas on Maui; and extend the timeline forthe commissions to transmitproposed
land use ordinances and amendments to the Council; and incorporate nonsubstantive
revisions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 205
And your Committee also agreed to keep the 120-day deadline for findings and
recommendations prepared by the Planning Director,returned to the Council for
considerationand actionafterthe finalpublichearing.
And itwas noted by the Planning Directorthat she did not support creating seven
separate planning commissions and does not believe there is sufficientvolume of
projectsto justifya planning commission foreach community plan area.
But nonetheless, your Committee concluded itwas appropriateto letthe electorate
decide whether each community plan area on Maui should have itsown planning
commission and, therefore,voted to recommend passage of Resolution 22-144, as
amended.
And the Committee voted 5-3, with one excusal, Committee Member Johnson. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Okay. Any more discussion?
Member Paltin,then King.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ijustwas puttingitout there ifanyone had
the appetiteto entertaintaking the authorityaway from the planning commission over
the coastalzone management area as the testifiersuggested?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Paltin,for that
question. Iactuallyattempted to wordsmith an amendment and showed itto our OCS
attorneys,that would amend Section 4 in the relevantcommunity plan review area.
"Review allmatters relatingto the . . . management law . . . transmitfindingsand
recommendations to the Council". That is too substantive of an amendment that would
change the,the intentofthe proposal. And so,thatwould be inappropriateatthistime.
And I saw Ms. Thomson. I saw her turn off her video, so Ithinkshe agrees. But I-
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: That's exactly what Iwas going to say.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thanks. Just puttingitout there.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We tried. We tried.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 206
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore, anymore discussion? Ready to vote?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Thank you for that attempt, Member
Paltin.Nice try.But Ijustwant to speak instrong support ofthis.And we heard from
many members of the community, it's,it'stheirkuleana to vote on thiswhether or not
they would liketo see theirtaxpayer dollarsput intothis. But the representationthat
thiswould bring ...equityto the,those of us incommunities who are not represented
with a planning commission. So, Ijustwanted to echo what Mr. Dick Mayer had said,
and others,thatthishas been a long time coming. And I'm hoping thatwe can put it
to the voters. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and then Deputy Thomson.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. Okay. So. I,I have an
amendment. But ifMs. Thomson wanted to speak to anything that she heard in the
discussion before Ipropose my amendment, I'm happy to yieldthe floor.
CHAIR LEE: Mem, Deputy Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you very much. Iwanted to reiterate
what I said in Committee. So, as, as you're allaware, the Charter Commission did
consider a proposal very similarto this,creatinga Maui, dissolvingthe Maui Planning
Commission and creating planning, regional planning commission for the island of
Maui. Based on our advice and also Sherry Broder, theirlegalanalyst advice,there
are many legalproblems with thatapproach that Ican go intoina littlebitmore detail.
The bottom line is that the Charter Commission did abandon that approach. And they
infactadopted the Council'salternative,which willbe on the ballot.That proposal is
to have regionalrepresentationon the Maui Planning Commission and itwould go into
effectimmediate. Councilmember King's proposal would go intoeffect,I believe,six
months lateror so. At any rate,ifboth amendments pass, ifboth receive a majority
yes votes, our officewillneed to go to court to seek a judicialdetermination on which
amendment controlsforwhich parts, itcould be thata judge will. ..that the Charter
Commission's proposal is enacted for a shorter period and then Councils. Or they
could strikedown both, or fashion another remedy. But Iwanted to make itvery clear
that our officecannot sign offon thisbillas itis writtenbased on the understanding
that we will need to take this to court. That's what we wanted to advise you today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 207
And there are also legalissues with six regionalplanning commissions forthe island
of Maui, specificallythe example of the SMA was brought up, having conflicting
opinions come out of differentplanning commissions that could be, you know,
rendering decisions on adjacent property isproblematic. Having differentSMA rules
could be problematic. Each planning commission would set theirown rules.So, those
are justa couple of the problems. There are more. But Iwon't go intothose intoany
further detail unless . . .
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Can we hear from David Raatz on thisissue
the issues thatwere brought up by Ms. Thomson?
CHAIR LEE: David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair Lee. Yes, our viewpoint
is expressed withinthe committee report and as Committee Chair Molina justsaid in
his opening remarks. We would reston that unless there are any questions. Thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Member King,do you have any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. I guess he's justsaying in his opinion it'sokay. I mean
that's,that was a discussion we had in Committee and so, you know, Ifeellikeagain
Corp. Counsel isimposing policyon us and that'sour job to do, isto make policy.So
I'm comfortable moving ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Okay. I,I have a question for
Ms. Thomson. In one of the last concerns that you stated where the different
community plan areas, ifthe planning commission of, of adjacent community plan
areas were to make different decisions based on the SMA matters that may come up,
would you be able to,well I guess two things. Ifyou're able to provide an example,
real world example.
And then two, as the composition of planning commissions change, and I'veseen this
happen with the Molokai Planning Commission, where, as you know. Mayor Arakawa
talked about where the body's change, decisions also change, so the makeup of the
bodies. So, the former, you know, planning commission approved certainthings and
set certainprecedent, they were changed, and the new planning commission makes
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 208
So, within that one Molokai Planning Commission there'sdifferent decisions,
inconsistencies.So, Iguess I’mtryingto understand the concern so Ican trytofigure
out how to address the concern.
CHAIR LEE: FirstDeputy Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Well, given thatwe justhave the
one Maui Planning Commission rightnow, iftheirdecisions are challenged itgoes up
to CircuitCourt. But,you know, say thatyou have a, likea Kihei,you know, and then
a Central Maui or a West Maui regionalplanning commission and they'reanalyzing
similartypes of applications.And they could decide those very differently.Imean, the
Maui Planning Commission could also, like you said, over time, make different
decisions.
Ithinkthatwhere problems could occur would be, you know, propertiesthatare quite
largeand thatspan two community plan areas, you know, which planning commission
isgoing to have jurisdictionover, you know, over those, over thatapplication? Like I
said,they can, they make theirown rules. They set theirown administrativerules.
They also adopt theirown SMA maps. So, the islandof Lanai justrecentlyupdated
theirSMA boundary. But thatwas, you know, itwas an island-wideeffort,you know.
So, ifyou have sixplanning commissions, your SMA boundary could radicallychange
between one jurisdictionand another. And itwould be based, itcould be based on
differentcriteriabecause you would have a differentdecision-making . . . We think
that,you know, conflictingdecisions coming out of adjacent planning commissions
would be problematic.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Mahalo for that responseMahalo Chair.
Ms. Thomson. Okay, so if,itsays thatthe community plan area planning commission
would be concerned withthe area of thatcommunity plan area. And so, the SMA map
would only be of that community plan area. I guess. I'm tryingto understand where
the conflictwould be inthe maps example.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
CHAIR LEE: FirstDeputy.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. So, itwould be at the borders.
You know, so where one community plan would come into contact with the next
community plan, that doesn't always lineup perfectlywith the tax map keys or the
parcels,you know. And then also,some projectscan span multipleTMK’s thatcould
cross over the boundaries of the community plan area.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 209
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair,and then, my lastfollowup, I'llyieldthe floor
.. . So, the community plan areas are established in ordinance so ifproblems arise
on, on those very specificlines,would we be able to resolvethose issuesviaordinance
in determining the boundaries of the community plan area?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Idon't think, . . .with your permission. Idon't
thinkthatyou could do itinadvance, you know. Ithinkthatthe problems would occur
and then itwould be, you know, retroactivelykind of addressing them. You know, I
think it'dbe a huge endeavor to tryto,you know, alignthe community plan maps with
all of the TMKs.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Ms. Thomson. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. As the State Legislaturedoes when they have
overlapping subjects,they could also have jointmeetings between two adjoining
community, planning commissions, ifthat'san issue. But we have had conflicting
returns of informationcome back from the three planning commissions we have now
when we send out countywide items to them. And you know, one willsend itback with
some changes, another one willsend itback with another change. And what happens
is, rightnow, the planning commission, or the Planning Department takes those
changes and decides on what the billshould look likeand then sends itback to the
County. So, they may not get theirchanges in there,depending on the conflicting
informationfrom another planning commission.
So, Ithinkthose conflictsare going to happen. They're,you know, as Member Rawlins-
Fernandez mentioned, they'rehappening between, you know, when the,when the
members change, the decisions change. So. Idon'tthinkwe should be afraidofthat.
Change happens and sometimes it'sa good thing. But to me, the bottom lineis
representation.And ifit,ifitfails,ifthe people don'twant it,the people won't vote for
it.But ifthe people want thatkind of representation,they should be allowed to vote on
it.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Okay, Mr. Molina. Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, did you have your hand up?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 210
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Ihave a proposed amendment. And thatis
on the firstpage of the, so under Section 8-8.4 Planning Commission, 1.The South
Maui planning commission will have jurisdictionover matters on Molokini and
Kahoolawe. So, 1triedto look, so Kahoolawe has itsown community plan area. Inthe
Charter on page 3,the West Maui residency area, Kahoolawe isthere.So, Iwas going
to propose that,I move to, okay, wait, I guess my amendment isn'tperfectyet.
Because I couldn'tfind Molokini within the community plan area. So, maybe I'llask
Ms. Thomson or OCS ifthey know where Molokini? Cause itwasn't,itwasn’t inthe
South Maui community plan area either,unless it'sconsidered three miles out from the
community plan area. But Idon'tknow the distance.
CHAIR LEE: David?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: David, are you on the call?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes, thank you, Chair. Unfortunately,we
don'thave a ready answer to the question. We are researching itrightnow.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin,do you know? We haven'tdone South Maui yet.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It,okay, itisunder West Maui. Inthe residency area
of the Councilmember's district.Iknow. So, it'son page 3 ifanyone wants to look.
AND SO, MY AMENDMENT WOULD BE TO AMEND, FROM
SOUTH MAUI IT WOULD SAY "THE WEST MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD HAVE JURISDICTION OVER
MATTERS ON MOLOKINI AND KAHOOLAWE."
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Any more discussion?
Member King?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 211
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I'm shocked, but I support it. Ifit'spart of the West Maui
Community Plan,then that'swhat itis. I'mjustsurprised. We were the ones thatfelt
the bombing when they were bombing on Kahoolawe but,you know, itiswhat itis.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Iremember those days. Okay, ready to vote on the amendment? No,
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, Ijust,to the question Iwas asked earlier,Ibelieveit'stwo
miles,cause 1know some guys thatused to go theiron theirown power.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all
carries.
'ayes",one "excused". So, eight "ayes' one "excused"; motion
Any more amendments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IN THE, IN THE FIRST SECTION, SECTION 8-8.4 PLANNING
COMMISSION. THE LAST LINE WHERE IT LISTS THE NAMES
OF THE DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS AS NON-VOTING EX-
OFFICIO MEMBERS OF EACH COMMISSION, I WOULD LIKE
TO STRIKE ALL OF THAT.
Iasked our, our, the Chair of our Molokai Planning Commission ifany of them attend
any of the meetings or ifshe was even aware that they were non-voting ex-officio
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 212
members. And she's been on there for over four years, and fiveyears in a previous
term. So, inpractice,I,they don'treallyattend the meetings. And when Iwas looking
at other commissions and boards, itseemed that thiswas prettystandard language to
name a bunch of the directorsas non-voting ex-officiomembers. But Iguess Ican, if
you'd like,I can ask Ms. Thomson ifthere, ifshe knows of any purpose for that
language being there. Otherwise, inpractice,they'renot,non-voting,they don'treally
show up to the meetings, so strikeit.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
FIRST. I'LLSECOND THE MOTION.
And Ijust,the question I had is,doesn't preclude them from coming to the meeting
right? They're justnot, Imean, they can stillcome, justlikeanybody else from the
from the publiccan come. Itjust,isnot naming them as a ex-officiomembers.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussions? Been moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, seconded by Member King, on this particularamendment, strikingthe
ex-officiomembers. Any more discussion? Allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA,EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
Okay. The main motion. Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The lastthing Iwould liketo speak
to isthe intent,so that it'sclear for the record. Each of Maui island'scommunity plan
areas may have itsown planning commission. So, I,spoke with our OCS attorney
about the word "may", because it'snot a "shall"and it’snot a "must",it'sa "may",
therefore,it'skind of optional.And so, my question was, what happens ifa community
plan areas was not,did not have a planningcommission? Who would represent,what
planning commission would represent the interestofthatcommunity plan area?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 213
And so. I asked ifitwould be possible to combine community plan areas to form a
multiplecommunity plan area planning commission? And the response was that it,
there'sflexibilityinthe language forthatwork to be done via ordinance. And Section 7
kind of. . .that legislativeintent.And so, I,Ispeak in support the . . . And then, if
Member King wanted to add more to legislativeintentas the author of the proposal.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. remember thiscame up because Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez mentioned that we might, you know, maybe we could combine
them ifthatmade more sense, and that’swhy we changed itto "may". So. yeah, full
support. I'm glad you. I'm glad you verbalized it,because now it'sin the record that
that'swhy we did that. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Okay. No more amendments? Oh, this is the second
amendment, right? Are you change, this is a new amendment, right,that you're
making?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No amendment, Chair. Just a main motion as
amended.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you'rejustclarifyingthat?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Articulatingthe legislativeintent for any future
researchers wanting to understand the legislativeintentof thissection.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,now the main motion as amended. Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina,
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 214
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
CHAIR LEE; Excused. Oh no, I'msorry. Thinking Tasha Kama. You can be excused too.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; We look so much alike.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Idon't know ifyou can hear me over the rain and the coquis.
BUT I'LL SAY AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
And Ido hear the coqui frogs. They're prettyclear.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE; EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AND CHAIR LEE.NOES;
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 215
COUNTY CLERK; So, that'sone "excused", two "noes", and six"ayes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin,were the frogs making noise earlier?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Since sundown. And now. the rain is reallyloud, so Igot my
headphones on.
CHAIR LEE; Oh okay, because I,Ithought Iheard frogs,and then Ithought,can'tbe. Would
be the,so it'sthe Hilofrogs? Okay.
FirstDeputy Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you. I'm hoping that Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez can help clarifywhether, so the ballotquestion, letme scrolldown,
sorry. The ballotquestion dissolvesthe Maui Planning Commission immediately and
creates a planning commission for all community plan areas on Maui. But the
discussion around the word "may", so each of Maui island'scommunity plan areas may
have itsown planning commission. Isthe intentthat these planning commissions be
created by ordinance or are they created on the effectivedate of this Charter
amendment? The ballotquestion and thatexplanation,Iwasn't clearifthey matched.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; The effective date is July 1, 2023. So, there would
be time. And then, my understanding was thatitwould be establishedvia ordinance.
But I'll,I'llalso yieldto Member King.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you, Chair. That was my understanding too, that that
would be created by ordinance, and thisgives us six months or so or more afterthe
election.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Does that answer your question, Deputy Thomson?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; 1 think so.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 216
CHAIR LEE: Idon't know why we're having allthisdiscussion in a Council meeting, quite
frankly. Next item.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair?
COUNTY CLERK: Next item, Chair. Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry,Madam Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Mr. Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ifthere are no objections,I know we've been going at itfor
about two and a halfhours, would itbe okay to take maybe a ten-minute break?
CHAIR LEE: Alright.10:17.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, sounds good. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: 10:17, in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:07 P.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:18 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER
KAMA, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Maui County Council July 1,2022 meeting please reconvene.
Madam, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,continuingwith committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-58 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 65 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII,
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES, REGARDING THE
ISSUANCE OF A MANAGEMENT RIGHT-OF-ENTRY FOR BRUSH CLEARING AND
PUBLIC PARKING PURPOSES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be
ORDERED TO PRINT.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 217
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 65 ON FIRST READING.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member King, to pass Bill65 on first
reading.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on June 14, 2022, to discuss Bill65.
The purpose of thisbillisto authorize the Mayor or his authorized representativeto
execute the management right-of-entrypermit agreement, attached as Exhibit"1",for
a parcel located in Keawakapu, Kamaole, Maui, Hawaii. The agreement would allow
forpublicparking and the clearingof overgrown brush from an unencumbered portion
of State of Hawaii land consisting of approximately 0.524 acres, identifiedas
Exhibit "A".
The Budget Directorsaid the Administrationhas been working withthe State of Hawaii
DLNR, to obtainan Executive Order forthe entireparcel.
And the Budget Directoralso said $100,000 was allocatedin the FiscalYear 2023
Budget to clearthe area and create about 50 temporary parking stallsthatcan be used
immediately.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of Bill65 on firstreading,with one
Committee Member excused, Member Johnson. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If-
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ijustwant to speak instrong support. And Iwant to thank Daniel
Ornellas from DLNR. I'vebeen working with him on this since 2018, so he's been a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 218
huge advocate and collaborator.So. Ijustwanted to give him some kudos forgetting
this,thisfar. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Very good. Any more discussion? Allthose infavor ofthe motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused": Member Kama. Motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-59 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS, AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
NO.
Recommending that Bill 92. CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 2.60, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO A RESIDENCY
REQUIREMENT FOR BOARD, COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS" be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 92, CD1 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass the billon
firstreading.
Discussion, Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 219
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on June 7 and June 15 to discuss Bill92.
The purpose of thisbillis to establisha County residency requirement for boards
commissions, and committee members.
Your Committee noted individualsappointed as members to a board, commission, or
committee should, at minimum, be a Maui County resident with a general
understanding of Maui County and the challenges faced by our community.
Your Committee noted "resident"means a person who meets the requirements of a
home exemption claim under Section 3.48.050, Maui County Code, other than the
requirement to own and occupy realpropertyas a principalhome.
And your Committee also noted residency outside of the County or failureto reporta
residency change outside of the County would justifyremoval from a board,
commission, or committee.
The Committee voted 7-0 to recommend passage of Bill92, CD1 on firstreading,with
two Committee Members excused; Member Johnson and Member Sugimura. And I'd
like to thank Member Paltin for this consideration. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. You know, with thisnew virtualtechnology
where we can do meetings, and I'mdoing it...the County rightnow, Ijustwanted to,
you know, close the gap and justensure thatdecisions forMaui County were made by
Maui County residentsas best as possible. So, thank you. Members, foryour support
of my bill.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 220
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-60 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:NO.
entitled "REFERRING TO THE MAUI22-149Recommending that Resolution
PLANNING COMMISSION PROPOSED BILLS TO AMEND THE KIHEI-MAKENA
COMMUNITY PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATION TO MF MULTI-FAMILY AND OPEN
SPACE AND CHANGE THE ZONING TO A-1 APARTMENT DISTRICT FOR REAL
PROPERTY SITUATED AT KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEYS (2) 2-1-023:004,
(2)2-1-023:005, AND (2)2-1-023:006 (WAILEA POINT VILLAGE)," be FILED.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 22-60.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin.seconded by Member Sinenci,to approve the
recommendation in Committee Report 22-60.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on June 16, 2022, and discussed Resolution 22-149, referringto the
Maui Planning Commission proposed billsto amend the Kihei-Makena Community
Plan land use designationfrom Hotel to Multi-Familyand Open Space, and a Change
inZoning from H-1 Hotel and H-2 Hotel DistricttoA-1 Apartment Districtforthe Wailea
Point Village.
Your Committee notes Wailea Point Village is a gated community consisting of
residentialunits,short-term rentalunits,and long-term rentalunits.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 221
A representativefrom the Department of Finance said 15 owners self-declaredtheir
unitswere operating short,as short-termrentalsin2020.
The Department of Finance representativeexpressed concern withthe potentialloss
intax revenue and possibly settingprecedent forother areas seeking similarchanges
in land use and tax classification.In 2022, the average assessed value fora unitwas
$3.9 millionand the minimum [sic]assessed value fora unitwas $10.7 million.
A representativefrom the Wailea Point Village said an independent survey was
conducted with the owners and concluded that a majoritysupported prohibitingand
phasing out short-term rentals.
A representativeof Wailea Point Village added that some owners were possibly
unaware ofthe County's propertytax classificationsand ratesforunitsatWailea Point
Village.
Your Committee expressed concern for a Council-initiatedamendment ifallunit
owners did not support the change. And the land use change would failto providethe
desired tax reliefforWailea Point Village.
Your Committee recommended Wailea Point Village apply for an amendment to
change the community plan land use designationand Change inZoning directlywith
the Department of Planning
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend filingof Resolution 22-149. I respectfully
ask forthe Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: More discussion? Okay, rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE. WITH RESERVATIONS.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 222
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES: CHAIR LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
COUNTY CLERK: One "excused", one "no", and seven-
CHAIRLEE: "Ayes".
COUNTY CLERK: "Ayes". Motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Resolutions.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 223
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with resolutions.These resolutionsare recommended for
referralto the followingCommittees as noted;
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
22-111NO.
APPROVAL OF COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 02
SUPERVISORY, BLUE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-111 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
22-115NO.
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR NON-SUPERVISORY WHITE-COLLAR
EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM BARGAINING UNIT 3, SUPERVISORY
WHITE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM BARGAINING UNIT 4,
AND PROFESSIONAL AND SCIENTIFIC EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM
BARGAINING UNIT 13
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-115 be referredto the Budget. Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-116
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 3, NON-SUPERVISORY
WHITE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES, BARGAINING UNIT 4, SUPERVISORY
WHITE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES. AND BARGAINING UNIT 13,
PROFESSIONAL AND SCIENTIFIC EMPLOYEES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-116 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 224
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Did our Clerk also callup 22-121
and 122?
COUNTY CLERK: I'mgoing to callthem up rightnow.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh okay. Ifshe may? Ifthere'sno objections?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-121
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM
BARGAINING UNIT 11, FIRE FIGHTERS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-121 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-122
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 11, FIRE FIGHTERS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-122 be referredto the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
AND I MOVE TO DISCHARGE THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTIONS 22-111, 22-115, 22-116,
22-121, AND 22-122.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 225
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Paltin,to
discharge allthe resos thatwere mentioned; 111, 115, 116, 121, and 122.
Discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We reviewed these resolutions
during the June 29 Budget, Finance, and Economic Development Committee. As
discussed during that meeting, these items are time sensitive,so we must take action
on them today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Allthose in favor of the discharge, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight"ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTIONS 22-111, 115,
116, 121, AND 122, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF
THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 226
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Sinenci,to waive
the Rules of the Council on the resolutions as stated by the Vice-Chair.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Same discussion during the
discharge motion. Allof these resolutionsare time sensitive.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight"ayes",zero "noes one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVETO ADOPT RESOLUTIONS 22-111, 115. 116, 121, AND
122.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,to
adopt Resolutions 22-111, 115, 116, 121, and 122.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
COUNTY CLERK: Discharge. Disposition.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 227
CHAIR LEE: What’s that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Were you talkingto us?
COUNTY CLERK: Oh no. I'msorry. Iwas talkingto the staff.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh okay. Alright.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Members, as stated-
CHAIRLEE: Go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: As statedby DirectorUnderwood during our meeting
earlierthisweek, these agreements have to be heard and approved by allof the
legislativebodies before they can go intoeffect.
These agreements run from July 1,2021, through June 30, 2025, and reflectthe salary
increases and any step changes negotiated by the Hawaii Government Employees
Association and the Hawaii Fire Fighters Association.
Chair, at thistime, Iwould liketo proceed with proposed amendments, beginning with
the County Communication 22-152, which was brought up by the Clerk earlier.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh shoot.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo Chair.
1 MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-121 BY REPLACING
EXHIBIT "1" WITH A REVISED EXHIBIT "1" CONTAINING
UPDATED NUMBERS; AND FILE THE COMMUNICATION.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 228
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci,to
replace the exhibit,as stated by the Vice-Chair.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. These, this amendment would allow
forthe numbers to be updated.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGiMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Seven "ayes",eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused": motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Imove to,oh sorry,let'ssee. Iwould
liketo proceed with County Communication 22-153.
I MOVE TO AMEND RESOLUTION 22-122 BY REPLACING
EXHIBIT "1" WITH A REVISED EXHIBIT "1" CONTAINING
UPDATED NUMBERS. AND TO FILE THE COUNTY
COMMUNICATION.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 229
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci, to
replace Exhibit"1" and filethe communication.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Again, this would update the
numbers.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. That concludes my amendments to
the main motion, irespectfullyask forthe Members continued support ofthese items.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Main motion as amended, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 230
COUNTY CLERK: Continuing with referralsto your Government Relations, Ethics, and
Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-128
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF RANDON ALIKA SANCHES TO
THE COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-128 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-128 WAS AMENDED AND ADOPTED
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 231 through 237 for
discussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-129
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF POERAVA U‘IU\NI TEHIVA TO
THE COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-129 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-129 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 237 through 240 for discussion and
action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-160
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM NO. 4056092
OF CRAIG CLOVE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-160 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 231
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-161
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF RONDA SMYTHE AND LIANA P. KANNO V.
BRANDON SAFFEELS, ETAL., CASE CV21-00056 LEK-RTAND
ALISHA N.K. CONSTANTINO V. BRANDON SAFFEELS, ET AL„
CASE CV 21-00316 LEK-RT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-161 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-163
APPROVING THE HAWAII STATE ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTIES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE'S
NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTIES AND WESTERN INTERSTATE REGION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-163 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-163 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 241 and 242 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto the referralsas noted?
Member Molina.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-128
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, yeah.
WITH REGARDS TO RESOLUTION 22-128, I MOVE TO
DISCHARGE THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, ETHICS, AND
TRANSPARENCY COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION 22-128.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 232
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Member Sugimura, to discharge from the
Committee, as stated by Member Molina.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Council'sdeadline to approve
or disapprove the nomination of Mr. Sanches isJuly 2, 2022. Ifwe don't take action
today, the nomination willautomaticallybe deemed approved, which isthe reason for
today's discharge request. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; motion carries.
Mr. Molina, hurry up before it's12 midnight.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-128 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 233
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Member Sugimura, towaive the Rules of
the Council on this matter.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair. Because it'stime sensitive,that'sthe
reason forthe waiver. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? ifnot,allthose in favor of the waiver, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-128.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sinenci,to adopt Resolution
22-128.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. During itsJune 28, 2022, meeting,
your GREAT Committee discussed the Mayor's nomination of Randon Alika Sanches
to the Cost of Government Commission fora term expiringon March 31,2023, to filla
vacancy replacing Noemi Barbadillo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 234
Mr. Sanches isa plumber and manager of Ricky'sPlumbing and the Lanai High School
tennis team coach. And being that,you know, we heard from him, I'm confidentthat
nominee will work hard to educate himself in areas that he feels he needs to and
subsequently, providevaluable insightto the Cost of Government Commission. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
CHAIR, I'D LIKE TO MAKE, AMEND IT TO MOVE TO
DISAPPROVE IF, IF THIS IS THE PROPER TIME.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Second anyone?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
disapprove Mr. Sanches.
Mr. Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I,I,although Iappreciate Mr. Sanches'
willingness to serve, I feel that he would better be served on his firstchoice of
commission which was the disabilitycommission. So, Ijust.I respectfullyask that he
hold offuntila slotopens up fora positionthatIthink he would betterserve on. Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose in favor of the amendment, raise your hand
and say "aye". Well, rollcall.Ishould say rollcall.I'm sorry. Rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 235
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK;
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE;
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK;
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK;
NO.CHAIR LEE;
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS
SINENCl, AND
FERNANDEZ.
JOHNSON, KING. PALTIN,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
NOES; COUNCILMEMBERS
CHAIR LEE.
MOLINA. SUGIMURA, AND
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
one "excused".CHAIR LEE; Motion carries;five"ayes",three "noes'
So, now we have the main motion as amended. Any, any more discussion? Rollcall.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 236
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 237
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA. SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA,EXCUSED:
COUNTY CLERK: That's five "ayes", three "noes", one "excused". Mr. Sanches is
disapproved.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Let'ssee. Okay, so-
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina. Mr. Molina.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-129
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, yeah, sorry.Madam Chair.
CONSIDERATION FOR RESOLUTION 22-129.
DISCHARGE THE GREAT COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF THIS RESOLUTION.
MOVE TO
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It'sbeen moved by Member Molina, second by Member Sugimura, to
discharge the Committee of 22-129,
And Member Molina is,discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. This has to do with the
nomination of Poerava U'ilani Tehiva. This will be to the Cost of Government
Commission. And the Council's deadline to approve or disapprove thisnominee is
July 8, 2022. So, again, likethe previous matter, ifwe don'ttake actiontoday, the
nomination willautomaticallybe deemed approved. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Sinenci. Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 238
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And we did reach out to Ms. Tehiva. And
extended our sentiments and asked her ifshe was willingto serve, and she's excited
to serve. Again, she ispartof the Hana Business Council, as well as a small business
owner. And so, we justwant, want to speak insupport of her nomination. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED;
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes' zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-129, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Second. Moved by Member Molina,second by Member Sugimura, towaive the
Rules of the Council regarding thisResolution22-129.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you, Madam Chair. Again, thismatter istime sensitive
and that'sthe reason why I'm making thisrequest forthe discharge. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 239
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion on the waiver? Ailthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes". Eight "ayes' one "excused": motion carries.zero noes'
Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-129.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Moved by Member Molina, second by Member Sinenci, to adopt
Resolution 22-129.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. At the June 28, 2022, GREAT
meeting, we discussed the nomination of Poerva [sic],Poerava U'ilaniTehiva to the
Cost of Government Commission. And this will be for a term for March 31,2024, to fill
a vacancy replacingSusan Pu. It'sgettinglate.Madam Chair.
But anyway, Ms. Tehiva isthe President of Coconut Grove Hana, which isa, and she's
also a Hana committee member for the Festivals of Aloha.
And I appreciate my colleague Mr. Sinenci to, he was giving us a, also a nice
description of the nominee. I'm confident that this nominee willprovide valuable
knowledge and skillsto the Cost of Government Commission. And 1 ask for the
Members fullsupport. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 240
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; motion carries.
Member Molina. No?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, ithink that was the-
CHAIRLEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: We justtook action,yeah. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk.
Ithought you were going to the next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Ihave one more-
CHAIRLEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK:
Transparency Committee.
-one more referral to the Government Relations, Ethics, and
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-167
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
VIRGINIA A. CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF MAUI,
DISABILITY COMPENSATION DIVISION CASE NO. 7-18-01109
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-167 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 241
COUNTY CLERK: And to your AffordableHousing Committee, resolution--
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member, wait. Hold up, Madam Clerk.
Member King.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-163
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Can iask forconsideration on No. 22-163?
CHAIR LEE: Oh sure. We'llgo back one. Okay, we'llgo back one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ididn'tknow she was moving ahead. Imove to-
CHAIRLEE: Yeah. Go ahead.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-163.
CHAIR LEE: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King to, moved by Member King, second by Member
Sugimura, to adopt Resolution 22-163.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. At the June 16, 2022, meeting the Hawaii
State Association of Counties, or HSAC Executive Committee, made itsnominations
to the National Association of Counties, or NACo and Western InterstateRegion, WIR,
Board of Directors for Fiscal Year 2023.
Resolution 22-163 outlines the nominees for both NACo and WIR, which includes
Councilmember Shane Sinenci as a nominee to the WIR Board of Directors.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 242
Pursuant to Section 5A and 5C of the HSAC Bylaws, the HSAC Executive Committee
shall nominate individuals who are elected officials to serve in the positionsprovided.
And each Council shallpass a resolutionnominating the NACo and WIR Board of
Directors. After allCouncils have approved the nominees, the HSAC President shall
forward the nominations to the NACo and WIR President and Board of Directors for
consideration.
Irespectfullyask forthe Councilmembers support of my motion to adopt thisresolution
today, thereby approving the nominations. I also want to thank Member Sinenci for
being a diligentattendee ofthe WIR conferences when Ihaven't been able to get there.
And thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion? ifnot,ailthose in favor of the motion to
adopt Resolution 22-163, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes' zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with referralsto your AffordableHousing Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-162
AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF LAHAINA
CROSSROADS APARTMENTS AT 767 LUAKINI
STREET, LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAI‘1
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-162 be referredto the Affordable Housing
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 243
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Johnson, to waive the Rules
of the Council regarding thisresolution.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirdsvote
willenable the Council to consider the proposed resolutiontoday. These matters are
time sensitive.And while the owners have paused evictionsand rent increases as of
June 27, they could resume. And Ihave more ifthismotion passes.
CHAIR LEE: This isonly on the waiver, yeah? Okay, any more discussion? All those in
favorofthe waiver,raiseyour hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes' one, one "excused"; motion carries.zero noes
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 244
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-162 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Member Sinenci, to adopt the Resolution
22-162.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. May I please ask the Clerk to read the
resolutionin itsentirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair.
(The resolutionwas read in itsentirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. This resolutionwillallow the County to
purchase the subject property in Lahaina. This is urgent given the fact that many
individualsin thisapartment buildingare long-term residents and kupuna on fixed
income. Due to the housing crisisand ever-increasing market rate price of rent inthe
County, many of these residentswillhave nowhere to go.
And just to letyou folks know, this,this buildingis in the historicdistrictin Lahaina.
And Idon'twant to spellout what that means for allthe speculators out there, but we
do have a caps billgoing through the planning commission.
I have spoken with the owner, and the owner has spoken with the Mayor, and I have
spoken with the Mayor. We haven't allspoken with each other at the same time, but
there's been conversation. And my intentionis,or my hope is the County would
purchase thisbuildingand keep the unitsaffordableforthe currentand futuretenants.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 245
Idon'tknow ifyou’ve triedto finda one-bedroom inLahaina rightnow. A quick Google
search willtellyou 2300 to 2900 is what is being asked for a one-bedroom unitin
Lahaina. I agree with the testifierMr. Nakoa, ifI had to choose, I would definitely
choose Lahaina Crossroads. We are at a crossroads rightnow. And you've heard of
the many people sleeping intheircars with no place else to go.
And in my conversations with the owner who purchased itin April,he's a community
businessman born and raised in Hawaii, and itlooked likea good deal on paper. He's
gotten inover his head and, and realizedthisisnot the image, thisisnot who he wants
to be. He wants to remain inour community, and he'swillingto negotiate. And he has
had offersfrom off-shoreinvestorswillingto take thisproperty offhis hands for much
more than what the County would be willingto pay. So, itistime-sensitivein that
nature. And I know it's,it's,you know, it'sjusta chance, but I'm asking you guys to
give,give my community a chance. It'slikea six-month deal ifwe can work something
out.
Irealizethatifitcomes out ofAffordableHousing Funds, thiswould be the only reading.
But,you know, the Maui News Buildingfellthrough and ifthatfunds are being used, it
would come back as a budget amendment. So, I'mjustasking you folksto give these
guys a chance.
CHAIR LEE: Isthe appraisal10 million,likethe Maui News Building?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, the currentowner isgoing to be out of town on, Ithinkhe
has a funeral situation,but he'llcome back in a month, and we'lldo the, we'llget the
appraisal at,Ibelieve itwould be less than 10 million.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Any more questions? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion
to adopt thisresolution,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes' one "excused; motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 246
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-164
AMENDING RESOLUTION 20-123 TO INCLUDE DEADLINES FOR THE
COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION OF THE 100 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE LILOA HALE SENIOR RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH CHAPTER 2.97, MAUI COUNTY CODE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-164 be referredto the Affordable Housing
Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-164 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 250 through 252 for discussion and
action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-166
URGING THE DEPARTMENT OF POLICE AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY TO
WORK WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF
LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES TO PRIORITIZE
ENFORCEMENT ACTION AGAINST UNAUTHORIZED
CAMPING ON UNENCUMBERED PUBLIC LANDS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-166 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-166 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 252 through 254 for discussion and
action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 247
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-168
SUPPORTING OUR KEIKI, WAHINE, AND
OHANA IN RESPONSE TO THE SUPREME
COURT VOTE ON OVERTURNING ROE V.
WADE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-168 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto the,these referrals?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Oh, Isee a hand. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-168.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sinenci,second by Member Sugimura, to adopt Resolution
22-168.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. May 1requestthe Clerk to read the resolution
in itsentirety,please?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
(The resolutionwas read initsentirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 248
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahaio, Chair. Members, as you know, thisSupreme Court
decision was expected for several weeks now. Many in our community around the
country are stilldismayed with the increasing politicizationof our legaland judicial
systems.
Since 1970, reproductive freedom has been protected in the State of Hawaii.
Governor Ige and others have pledged thatthese protectionswillcontinue.
But no matter what your beliefsare, Ihope we can allagree thatthe priorityof good
governance isto ensure equalityand fairnessinhow laws and policiesare developed
and applied. As a teacher and an advocate forchildren,especiallythose with special
needs, I can attestto the struggles families and communities face when there are
insufficientresources, a lack of services,and misplaced prioritiesinsociety.
Our focus should be on eradicating poverty and economic inequalities;provide
education and employment opportunities;and making housing, healthcare,and
children's healthcare services more affordable to those who need them the most. Must
look beyond the unhelpful labelsand look towards what ittrulymeans to be pono,
which iscreatingthe conditionsforour keiki,wahine, and ohana to thrive.
And so. Members, ifthere are no objections,I'dliketo add to the resolutionthatcopies
also be sent to Senator Scott Saiki,excuse me. Speaker Scott Saiki,Senate President
Kouchi, Hawaii Congressional Delegation, and Senator Joe Manchin. Respectfully
request the Members support of my motion. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Chair, I just want to thank Member Sinenci for bringingthis
forward, because we've allbeen dismayed this lastweek about the decision ... the
lasttwo weeks of decisions thatthe Supreme Court has been making. And Ithink it's
very apropos thatitcame from one of our male counterpartson the,on the Council.
I read an article,lotof,lotsof articles,but one that pointed out thatmen have no such
legalimpositionsor mandates on theirhealthcare,as the Supreme Court isputtingon
women's healthcare. So, Ijustwanted to recognize that,and. and thank Mr. Sinenci
for bringingthisforward. But recognize allof us being, Ithinkallof us are a littlebit
concerned about this,so Ihope thispasses. I'm instrong support. Thank you.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 249
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Ispeak instrong support. And also,
echo Member King'ssentiments ...Member Sinenci,I'm so proud to siton a Council
of feminists.Everyone on the Council isfeminist.Ilove it.Thank you.
And justreallyquickly.As a,as a policymaker,Ibelieveinpassing laws thateffectively
address what it'sseeking to address, and effectivelyreducing abortion is what this
resolutioniscallingfor.That's the most effectiveway; healthcarethat'saffordableand
accessible to everyone, education, childcare,everything that Member Sinenci included
in his resolution.And that'show you know that banning abortion isn'tabout reducing
abortions. It'sabout controllingwomen, particularlywomen inpoverty thatdon'thave
access. And oftentimes, it'sblack and brown women and, and native women. So, I
speak instrong support of the resolution.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ithinkthe anyone else'sallagree withwhat has been said,and
congratulateand commend you. Member Sinenci.
Allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE,
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Alright,so eight "ayes",zero "noes one "excused"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with agenda item N. Billsforreferral.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. Chair?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair? Chair, I'm sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 250
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-164
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Ithink Igot skipped for22-164, beg your pardon.
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: Well,you did read it.Madam Clerk. Okay, let'sgo back to 22-164.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair.
1 MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Paltin,to waive the
Rules of the Council on this Resolution 22-164.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds
vote willenable the Council to consider adopting Resolution22-164 today. This matter
is time sensitive.The development needs to know whether the Council willextend
deadlines forLiloaHale Senior Rental Housing Projectin Kihei,otherwisethisproject
may not. . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Allthose infavorofthe waiver,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 251
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": motion carries.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION 22-164.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member King,to adopt Resolution
22-164.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Resolution 20-123, approving the Liloa
Hale Senior Rental Housing Projectwith modificationswas adopted on September 11,
2020. Construction has been understandably been delayed due to the COVID-19
pandemic. And by adopting Resolution 22-164, the Council willbe givingan additional
year for both the startand completion deadlines, which would be 2024 and 2027,
respectively.Irespectivelyrequest the Council'ssupport of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? Ifnot, allthose in favor of the motion to adopt the
resolution,please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE,
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 252
one "excused"; motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
Okay. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with billsfor referrals.These billsare recommended
for referralto the followingCommittee--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
COUNTY CLERK: -as noted.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-166
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, I was tryingto get your attentionearlier.I
consideration on 22-166.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Members, any objections? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE RESOLUTION 22-166.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
file Resolution 22-166.
Discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 253
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. We received a lotof testimony in
opposition,and a lotof concerns. And I'm not exact, I'm not exactlyclearon the intent
ofthe,ofthe resolution.But perhaps insteadoftakingitto Committee, itcan be worked
on again to address some of the concerns that were shared intestimony, instead of
attractingallthe same testimony again in Committee.
(Councilmember Sugimura was excused from the meeting at 11:13 p.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Now that we, we've received some of the feedback,
perhaps those can, you know, be adjusted and then proposed again ifthat would be
the pleasure of the introducer.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion to file,raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA AND SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": motion carries.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Chair. Member Sugimura don't think is there.
CHAIR LEE: Okay then.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Isee, Isee something moving. Oh, there she is
okay.
CHAIR LEE: Looks likeshe's on the phone. Okay so, so let'ssay the vote was seven "ayes";
zero, two "excused", no. What was that? Six "ayes",two "excused", that'sstilleight.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 254
Six,seven "ayes",two "excused"; motion carries.Okay. The excused were Members
Kama and Sugimura.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,before proceeding, ifwe can get an inquiryon ifthere'sno other
objections to the resos to be referredas read.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, repeatingthisagain, cause Isaid that earlier,any objectionsto the
referrals?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. And moving forward with billsfor referral,recommended for
referralto the followingCommittee as noted:
(Councilmember Sugimura returnedto the meeting at 11:15 p.m.)
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 111 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF
MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
STATE OF HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH FOR A LOAN FROM THE
STATE WATER POLLUTION CONTROL REVOLVING FUND FOR THE
COUNTYWIDE RESIDENTIAL CESSPOOL CONVERSION PROGRAM
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 111 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any actionon thisone? Ifnot,proceed.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,justa question.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member King.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 255
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, on my, on my form, itsays GREAT Committee. But Idon't
know ifIhave a wrong version of this.
CHAIR LEE; No. No. you don't,you may have the wrong version. The updated versionwas
to the BFED Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This ...,yeah, Iguess Ihave an old version.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: And then,agenda item O. BillsforSecond and Final Reading.
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 67 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE FOR A CHANGE IN ZONING
FROM INTERIM DISTRICT TO B-CT COUNTRY TOWN BUSINESS
DISTRICT FOR PROPERTY SITUATED AT KAUNAKAKAI,
MOLOKAI, HAWAII, TAX MAP KEY (2)5-3-002:049
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 67 (2022) ON SECOND AND FINAL
READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 256
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to pass Bill67 on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on May 25, 2022, and discussed the resolutionto referto the Molokai
Planning Commission a proposed billfora change inzoning from InterimZone to B-CT
Country Town Business Districtforrealpropertycomprising 32,068 square feetlocated
at Makaena Place, Kaunakakai, Molokai, Hawaii.
Your Committee notes thatthe Planning and Sustainable Land Use, Council'sPlanning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee 2019-2021 term met on January 30, 2019. Your
Committee notes itpreviously reported on this matter through Committee Report
19-37.
At itsmeeting ofApril5,2019, the Council adopted the recommendations inCommittee
Report 19-37, Resolution 19-75.
Your Committee notes the Molokai Planning Commission met on October 27, 2021, to
review and approve the proposed billwith no conditions.
Your Committee furthernotes the change inzoning would make the zoning consistent
with the Molokai IslandCommunity Plan, and supports economic diversificationby
continuing to allow existingcommercial spaces to be used by the island'ssmall
businesses.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend passage of Bill67 (2022) on firstreading
and filingof the communication. I respectfullyask for the Members support of my
motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor inthe motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 257
one "excused": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: So, we got eight now. Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
Okay. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with item P. Unfinished Business.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-47NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending the following:
1. That Bill 21, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING TO PROTECTING
SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING," be PASSED ON FIRST READING
and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 21-546, from Councilmember KellyTakaya King
be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-47.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-47.
Member King, discussion.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 258
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. At thistime,ifthereare no objections,Iwould
liketo proceed by introducinga proposed amendment. This amendment combines-
CHAIR LEE: Any objections? Any objections.Members? So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. This amendment combines changes included
in County Communication 22-154 and adds in even more clarificationto address
voiced concerns. And Iwant to thank Managing DirectorSandy Baz forworking with
us on these changes. I intend to work from this more current ASF, which is being
distributedby the Clerk'sOffice,or has been, Ithinkyou should have itmidday, and
fileCounty Communication 22-154.
Okay, before getting.I'llgo intothe ASF next. Does everybody have that?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Got it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. So, the proposed Bill21, CD1 (2022), entitled
'A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING", this,this
description,my amendments address three major concerns raised by members of the
public and Administration. The availabilityof compliant lightingfixturesis greatly
increased by removing the requirement that the fixturesbe FLEDs. Also, the
exemptions forportablelighting,includingthose for,used foremergency services and
community events are clarified,and expanded. Finally,the effectivedate is moved
back to January 1,2023, to allow additionaltime forcompliance.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE BILL AS FOLLOWS:
1. AMEND CODE SECTION 20.35.060(D) BY STRIKING "BE
FILTERED LIGHT EMITTING DIODE FIXTURES THAT" FROM
THE FIRST SENTENCE.
2. AMEND CODE SECTION 20.35.070(B), LIKE BOY. BY
ADDING "OR USED AS PORTABLE LIGHTING" AFTER THE
WORD "INSTALLED" AND ADDING "TEMPORARY,
PORTABLE LIGHTING USED FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES
INCLUDING PUBLIC SAFETY, ROAD CONSTRUCTION OR
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 259
EMERGENCY REPAIR. AND ROAD CROSSING AND" AFTER
THE WORDS "EXCEPT THAT." ALSO, ADD "EMERGENCY
SERVICES AND" AFTER THE WORDS "STANDARDS FOR".
3. AMEND SECTION 6 OF THE BILL BY CHANGING THE
EFFECTIVE DATE TO JANUARY 1,2023.
Amending the billto allow the use of alllightfixturetypes that limitshort wavelength
content to no more than two percent of the blue lightcontentwillprovidepeople more
lightingoptions. The billoriginallyallowed FilteredLEDs because they limitblue light
and are the most efficientoption. Hawaii Island uses FLEDs, Phosphor Converted
Amber (PCA), Narrow Beam Amber (NBA), and Low Pressure Sodium (LPS) fixtures
that can also meet the two percent blue lightstandard. If approved, and as a
compromise, thisamendment willensure widespread availabilityof compliant fixtures.
Amending the billto clarifythat the exemptions include existingportable lightingfor
emergencies and community events likean Obon Festival willensure a safe and
smooth transitionforour community.
Further,amending the billto clarifythattemporary lightingused foremergency services
is exempt for three years and may be exempted beyond three years ifthere are no
compliant lightingfixtures available that meet industry standards for emergency
services.
Ifmy motion isapproved:
1. Code Section 20.35.060(D) willread as follows:
Alloutdoor lightingfixtures,except forneon, must limitshortwavelength content to no
more than two percent of blue lightcontent. "Blue lightcontent" means the ratioof the
amount of energy emitted by the outdoor lightfixturebetween 400 and 500 nm divided
by the amount of energy between 400 and 700 nm."
2. Code Section 20.35.070(B) willread as follows:
Alloutdoor lightingfixturesinstalledor used as portablelightingpriorto the enactment
of the ordinance establishingsubsections 20.30.060(D) and (E) are exempt from the
provisions of those subsections for a period of three years from the date of enactment
of the ordinance establishing those subsections; except that temporary, portable
lightingused for emergency services including public safety, road construction or
emergency repair,and road crossing and lightingforsports and athleticfieldson state
of Hawaii department of education properties, private school properties,and County
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 260
parks and facilitiesmay remain exempt from subsection 20.30.060(D) beyond the
three-year period if,and for only as long as, there are no compliant lightingfixtures
availablethatmeet industrystandards foremergency services and sportingevents.
And then, 3. Section 6 of the billwillread as follows:
This Ordinance takes effecton January 1, 2023.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Any questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I have a littlemore discussion in my notes, ifthat'sokay. Iknow
it'sgettinglate,but.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Ithought you reached the end.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That was the end of the ASF, but ijust . . . Committee notes.
Before gettingintothe committee report.I'dliketo highlightsome important testimony
we, we received that reinforces the importance of this legislation. The CARE
Committee heard from Earth Justice Senior Attorney David Henkin, who provided
testimony stating,"Bill21, GDI substantiallyimproves on priorversions of the billby
ensuring that the County addresses the harm that existingartificiallightimposes to
imperiled birds,seabirds; provides a reasonable phase-in period forthe replacement
ofexistingoutdoor lighting;and furtherimproves on priorversions ofthe billby adopting
the definitionof blue lightcontent found in Hawaii County's lightingordinance,
specifyingthat LED fixturesmust have "lessthan 2 percent blue lightcontent".
Using the same definitionof blue lightcontent ensures that government agencies,
businesses, and individualsof Maui County willbe able to secure compliant outdoor
lighting,justas theircounterpartsinHawaii County have been able to do formore than
a decade. And also,justa reminder, 1think David Henkin ison thiscall,but I'm not
sure, because he's in California,so it'sthree hours laterfor him. But we do have Jay
Penniman on. who we asked to be a resource as well.
I'dalso liketo note a few specificsin response to criticismthe billhas received. The
billallows for longer than three years to comply with the ordinance for sports and
athleticfields,etc.,ifno compliant lightingfixturesare availablewithinthree years.
Emergency lightingservices lightingis exempt. The ASF ! just introduced makes
additionallightingoptions more widely available.Lightingbrightness isnot affectedby
the bill.Itapplies to shieldingand wavelength.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 261
We also received written testimony from Tamara Sherill.on behalf of the Maui
Conservation Alliance,stating"Bill21 is a criticalstep in the rightdirection.The
ordinance includesprovisionsrelatedtothe directionof lights,shieldingstandards,and
wavelength specificationsthat are more seabird friendly,and strategiesto help
eliminatethe use of unnecessary lighting.The measures includedinthe proposed bill
are doable. They closely mirror outdoor lightingstandards establishedby Hawaii
County in1988, nearly25 years ago. Extension,extensive research supportsthe need
foractionand the scientificjustificationforthe recommendations".
As to the committee report,your CARE Committee met on June 1, 2022, to discuss
Bill21 (2022), to implement regulation on all outdoor lightingfixtures,including
swimming and decorative pool lighting,to be lightemittingdiode fixturesthatare down
directed,fullyshielded,and mounted as low as physicallypossibleto limitlighttrespass
and reflectionoffground surfaces to protectnative Hawaiian seabirds from beginning,
from becoming disorientedby artificiallight.
Your Committee noted that native Hawaiian seabirds are an essential part of Maui's
biodiversityand that protectionof these seabirds is critical,as theirvitalconnection
with mountain watersheds and seashore reefs greatly benefit the health of our
ecosystem.
Your Committee further noted that artificiallightinghas a major negative impact on
various species of animal, but isparticularlyharmful to birds.
Your Committee expressed concern that residentialcompliance may be challenging
due to the availabilityof conforming outdoor lightfixturesand retailestablishments.
But the inclusionof a three-year implementation period would help ensure adequate
time forthe County and residentsto comply with the new requirements.
Your Committee agreed to amend Bill21 (2022) to requirethe Directorof PublicWorks
to establish and maintain a listof compliant outdoor light fixtures,and develop
administrativerulesthat set height restrictionsforoutdoor lighting.
The Department of PublicWorks was inattendance, notingthatthey willbe responsible
forcommunity education and outreach programs.
I also wanted to note that we did send the billto the, the Public Works Commission as
well.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 262
Your Committee voted 6-1 to recommend passage of Bill21, CD1 (2022) on first
reading and filingof the communication. Irespectfullyask forthe Council'ssupport of
your Committee's recommendations as amended, and the filing of County
Communication 22-154. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good job,Kelly.So, Iwanted to,based upon the testimony
and justby Public Works, Police,Fire,Parks, who else did Ispeak to,concerns that,I
would eitherliketo request thatthisgo back to Committee to discuss further,or Ihad
an amendment which iwould liketo . . . I'lljusttryto add the ASF. Did the ASF get
passed out? Please. So, ASF, did you get it? 1wanted to add a section,basically,
exemptions. And itwould be Section 20.35.070. Exemptions. And basically,the
exemptions were criticallytaken from the Big Island bill,and exemptions that are in
that bill,ifIcould. Did you allget the bill?ASF, I'm sorry. May I proceed? You all
look so tired. You folks look so tired.
CHAIR LEE: Isitlong? Why don'tyou justread itto us?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You want me to read itto you? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Itislong.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: What ifIread itfast? Okay, what does that mean, no?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is there a second on the motion?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we did have a second on the motion. I believe itwas Mr, Sinenci? On
who's, yours, your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, on Member Sugimura's motion.
CHAIR LEE: No. Shedidn't-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: -really make the motion. You want to make a motion to amend?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 263
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Iwas reading from the ASF . ..see on your faces. Okay
I'm going to proceed then.
I MOVE TO AMEND BILL BY REPLACING SECTION 20.35.070
WITH THE ATTACHED VERSION. AND THE ATTACHED
VERSION IS EXEMPTION-
CHAIR LEE; Well, okay, isthere a second to the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND, FOR DISCUSSION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, now, discussion. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I wish I could show you your faces. I propose a new
version of Section 20.35.070, Maui County Code, with an updated listof exemptions
that includes exemptions from the Hawaii County Code (Article9, "Outdoor Lighting"),
sports,fields,and "specialoccasions", which includes Obon. Also, includes lighting
from FirstFriday,which would then become illegal,low wattage lightingforholidayand
events, such as Obon dances.
The proposal,thisproposal responds totestifiers'concerns from members ofthe public
and the County agencies.
So, the attached is a new version of,we added to the bill,of 20.35.070 to be included
in an FD1 version of Bill21, SD1 [sic],I mean, CD1 (2022). How would you liketo
proceed? Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. I'mnot reallysure what allthingsare being
said rightnow. But I had a question, which is like,so now we're doing these
exemptions and things and Iwas wondering what isthe differencebetween what we're
doing rightnow and the billthatCorporation Counsel gave to us inCommittee thatthey
said accomplishes the same thing but with exemptions? Cause itfeelslikewe kind of
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 264
came fullcircleto that. But I,Ican't even follow the conversation very good, so I'm not
sure, so ifsomeone could explain that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, Ithinkwhat happened during the Committee meeting,
ifIcould, Tamara, isthat Keola Whittaker, he triedto explain hisversion of the billbut
was not allowed to. So, the billjust proceeded with whatever was presented by the
Committee. So, I'm not sure ifyou were referringto thatproposed legislationthatKeola
had proposed. So, that was never taken into consideration or, or was he able to
discuss it.That's my recollection.Kellyhas her hand up, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. We have a question from Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I'dliketo respond to that.And I,actuallyifForrest,ifJames
Forrest is stillon the call,I'dask him to respond too. We had sent the billto
Corp. Counsel asking forthem to review itfor,forlegalityand format and to not return
another bill.So, we didn't listen,we didn't hear that billin Committee. That billwas
not posted by us.
The, the, what we're looking at for Member Sugimura is most of thisisalready inthe
bill,this,before you rightnow. Most of these exemptions are already inthere. I'm a
littledismayed thatitexempts fossilfuellight.Idon'tknow why thatwould, we would
want to support that. I do not support fossilfuel lighting.I'm not,we already have
exemptions fortemporary lightingand decorative lighting,and most of the thingsthat
are inhere. So, Idon'tsupport this,thislistof exemptions. It'sgot some of the things
that are already in the bill,but then it'sgot some new things that Iwouldn't want to
support. ...are in here, but thatwould be, Idon'tknow when we ever have them, but
that would be relatedto emergency services,so that'salready inthere.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, this extensive list-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So...
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Iguess Iwould. Iguess Iwould ask David to respond to Member
Paltin'squestion.
CHAIR LEE: David, can you respond to Member Paltin'squestion? And then, we have
Deputy Whittaker on the lineas well.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair Lee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 265
CHAIR LEE: David, are you still--
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I haven't had a. yeah, Iam here. Ihaven't
had chance to, to do a comparison yet of the ASF to the earlierversion that
Councitmember Paltin referenced. I do see Mr, Whittaker is,isonline ifperhaps he's
able to address that,ifyou'd like.Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Keola?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: Thank you. Chair. So, to answer
The ASF thatCouncilmember Paltin'squestion, they're completely different.
Councilmember Sugimura isputtingforward adopts the exemptions that are existing
inthe Hawaii County ordinance.
And to respond to Councilmember King,your draftordinance also excludes fossilfuels.
It'sjustthatkerosene, you know, it'slikethe kerosene torches,that'san exclusion in,
in your billas well. So, it's,itexistsinthe currentordinance.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Oh, wait,excuse me. Member Paltin,you didn'thear him?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I heard him. I think. I'm not sure ifwhat question he was
answering or ifI asked the wrong question. But my question was the ASF that we
received today, how isthat differentthan the, the billthatyou guys put forward that
was supposed to accomplish the same thing of the other bill,but to make itlike
something okay thatyou could sign offon. Isthe ASF that we got today . . .was my
question. But i didn'thear that one answered, I thought what was answered was
comparison between the two ASF's we got justnow.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: No, I,I'm sorry,Councilmember Paltin.
I know it'slate for both of us. So, the answer is,itis different. So, the, the alternative
billthatIput forward has completely differentlanguage. The ASF thatCouncilmember
Sugimura put forward today justadopts the exemptions thatare inthe Hawaii County
ordinance.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, and the ASF that Councilmember King put forward today
iscompletely differentthan the billthatyou put forward as well. Does ithave the same
meaning?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: No.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 266
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Or would you sign offon her ASF bill?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: No. The reason we can'tsign offis
because of the blue lightpercentage that is current,in the current bill.No other
organization in the country adopts that precise blue lightpercentage, except forthe
County of Hawaii. The County of Hawaii adopted itnot to save seabirds, but for
Mauna Kea, for the visibilityof Mauna Kea. So, we haven't found any other
organization inthe country that adopts this,which iswhy lightsare not availableon the
general market thatmeet thatblue lightpercentage. That's why we can'tsign it.That's
one of the several reasons we can'tsign it.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And we can’tsupport Mauna Kea as well?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: We certainlycan.
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Member King.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER:
ordinance.
But that's not the reason for the
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So, I,Isee what Member Paltin'sasking about
the, the billthatwas put forward by Corp. Counsel addresses kelvin,which is heat.
We're not talkingabout heat measures here. We're talking,and so we had this
discussionwith OCS, with David Henkin, with Jay Penniman. And ifJay's on, maybe
he would liketo come on and speak to it.
The, the two percent blue lightas, as Mr. Whittaker said is,is being used on, in the
Hawaii ordinance, and that'swhy we adopted it,because it'sworking over there. So,
Idon’tunderstand their,theirscience was not supported by our experts. And Idon't
understand why there, it'sa policy issue, really,is what OCS told me, so i don't
understand why Corp. Counsel istakingthisposition.But Idon'tknow ifthe,anybody's
stillawake and on thiscall,but ifyou are, Mr. Penniman and ...maybe you could,you
could give us that,that additionalinsight.
I mean, we talked about this a lot in Committee. We've heard from many, many
resources, how availablethose lightsare. I got, I had some on my desk and in the
chambers that one of our OCS supporter, or one of our OCS attorney's bought on
Amazon thatthat are very compliant and easilyto,easy to screw into any lightbulb
fixture.So, I guess there'sa differenceof opinion on, on whether these people are,
know what they'redoing, these people who are supplying the Big Island. It's,it'skind
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 267
of frustratingto, to have them basicallytake a differentpositionon the science
because we brought inscientistsand experts on the lighting.
So, anyway, Mr. Forrest,ifyou're there,do you want to step inand address some of
these issues thatwe've been talkingabout for,since February? Maybe he'snot awake
either.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, Isee his picture.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY JAMES FORREST; Hello?
CHAIR LEE; Oh there's-
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Aloha, Chair, Chair Lee. That's not,that'snot exactly
common practice,but ifyou'llallow it,Iwillproceed.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; What? What isnot common practice?
CHAIR LEE; What's not common practice?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Just foranyone other than Mr. Raatz to address the
Council.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Well, we're, I don't know, we're not privy to your arrangement with
Mr. Raatz. But can, can you justanswer the question because we're very,very tired?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: I can answer itthe best I can foryou. Iwould say
that the exceptions from the Hawaii County law are a lot more broad than the
exceptions that we approved for the Maui version. However, we did, in the ASF,
expand the Maui exclusions to take care of the emergency lightingsituation.And we
made itclearthatallthe sportingand community events are perfectlyfine.
One of the big differencesisthatthe mau, the Hawaii County law would allow existing
fixturesto stay untilthey burn out,basically.And the problem withthat,or the possible
problem with that,isthat these LEDs might lastfordecades. And if,ifyou believe the
science that it'sharmful for the environment, that would be allowing harm to continue
fordecades. So, that isa big difference. Our law basicallyhas a three-yearphase-in
period, so itwould limitexistinglightsto three years, i hope that answers your
questions. Ithink we carefullydrafted our exceptions to meet the needs of Fire,and
Police,and baseball games.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And ifImay. Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 268
CHAIR LEE; Yes. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Yeah, can you also,Mr. Forrest,just explain the
differencebetween the billthatcame from Corp. Counsel and our bill?Why we did not
use that one.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Okay, sure. Chair Lee. ifImay?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: I would state the main difference is that it'sbased on
the kelvinscale,and that'sthe temperature. And we've been toldagain and again by
the scientistthatthat'snot relevantto protectingthe seabirds or the turtles.So, that's
the big difference. So, ours isbased on a two percent scale.
And by the way, another change in our amendment was to make itso where it'snot
only the FLEDs that Mr. Bob Adams provides, but it'sthe amber lights,and there's a
couple of other lightsthat are allowed, such as the gentleman from the LED Hawaii
company. So, we expanded the availablelightingsignificantlyso that people could
comply.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sugimura, do you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: You know, Ijustwant to add to the discussion that Ithink
italso came up thatthere'sa, a differencebetween Big Islandand the Maui version is
Big island isnot residential.And our bill,remember when we were going through this
in Committee and I said the word "all"and I stopped? The word "all"means it'sall
lights,right,except with,now withthisASF. Itchanged some withwhat Kellyproposed.
And then. I'mtryingto.I'mtryingto clarifyitmore with more exemptions. But the big
differencebetween Big Islandand ours isthatyour lightsatyour house isnow subject
to this,right? itisresidentialand commercial, which isall.This isall.. . The billthat
Maui isdoing isall.
And that was the excitement, I think, is that we heard from, or the concern that we
heard from some of the testifiers then and now and the differences. So, and, and I,
and you allheard the testimony today, writtentestimony, even MECO had a, Hawaiian
Electrichas concern about thisbilland incorrespondence. And Parks Department had
a concern about it.So, Iwould liketo propose these exemptions, or add thisto the bill.
But, and really,at thishour, I reallywould liketo send thisback to Committee so that
we can talk about itwhen we're clear and sound minds, and not as tiredas you alllook.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 269
But Iwould liketo add this,the exemptions, ifwe're going to stillcontinue. But Ithink
what we reallyneed to do issend itback to Committee so thatwe can talkabout itin
detailand get everybody who should be at the tableto talkabout itat length. Ithink
it'simportant.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so we did reach out to allthe departments. We had the
Department of Public Works there at the lastmeeting and made some of these ... I
don't, I don't think there's,we've been working on thisfor a long time, I don't think
there'sa need to bring itback to Committee.
And also, Iwant to say thatwe addressed allthe concerns. The concerns of Fireand
Policewere about emergency lighting.Ieven spoke with the Chief before the meeting,
and he was fine with it. And with the concerns of the outdoor lightingfor temporary
events, fordecorative lighting,have been taken care of.
I don't understand why we would even take thisback to Committee. But we also, I
want to pointout too,we also heard from many, many folkswho livehere who want to
protect the seabirds, and the turtles,and whatever other,the various species of birds
that are having that fallout. And understand that we're speaking up, we're doing
something forbiodiversity.Our, our Council passed a resolutionto support biodiversity
and to protectendangered species. And so, thisis what we're doing here. We're
takingthataction.
So, I,I speak, Ithink the billhas been worked on extensively. I reallyappreciate all
the work that OCS put into itand the, even beyond just helping write a bill,but
researching itand findingthe experts who could speak to thisbill.And I,Idon't know
what else to say. I'mjust.I'm,Ithinkwe should,we should callthe question.
CHAIR LEE; Any-
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Richelle.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody, okay, Member Molina's hand is up. And then, I see FirstDeputy
Thomson.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Just to get clarification.So,
from Member Sugimura, so your amendment is,your proposal is send this back to
Committee or isitjustto attach your,these exemptions from the Big Islandbill?Ijust
want. . .exactly what's on the floorwe're going to be voting on.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 270
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; I actuallywould liketo . . . I think there’sa greater
discussion that'sneeded. But ifwe're going to vote today, the vote on the flooristhe
amendment to add the exemptions as Iread.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. So, not to send thisback to Committee then? It'sjust
to add this,these exemptions. Okay. Alright.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: FirstDeputy.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL; Thank you, Chair. We would also really
appreciate the opportunityto address the issues that have come up across multiple
departments expressing theirconcerns with the bill,theirinabilityto comply with it,
various exemptions that are very necessary forcommon operations.
The ASF that'sbeing proposed by Councilmember King,whileitdoes address a certain
period of time for emergency lights,itdoes not exempt them from the blue light
requirement. And that'sa concern thatPublic Works, the Public Works Directorspoke
toward the end of publictestimony today. And he said that he could not enforce this
billand also could not comply with it.And that compliance would cost a significant
amount of money in equipment thatthey already had in stock. IthinkParks has said
similarthings.
So, from our viewpoint,we would greatlyappreciatethe opportunityto work withallof
you on a billthatachieves the goals,but thatisalso,you know, works inthe realworld.
There are experts thatwe have spoken to thatdo not agree with certainof the things
thathave ben promoted by some ofthe folksthathave ... And couple of the reasons
thatwe cannot sign offon thisbillthough, inadditionto the inabilityto comply with the
terms of itand to enforce it,as Public Works said, thiswould put a haltto processing
permits,because thiswould apply immediately to allnew lightingfixture,allnew lighting
fixtures. It's,there are issues with preemption. This applies also to airportsand
harbors. We don't believe thatwe can, as a Maui County, regulateairportlightingor
harbor light.
There are terms in the billthat are vague, such as non-reflective.There's a, a section
in the billthat talks about, about shielded lights,that ifa lighthitsa wall surface,the
surface must be non-reflective. That would mean that the surfaces would have to be
matte black. And even matte black paint, as the Director of Public Works said, is a
reflectivepaint. So, you know, there are a lotof issues with the bills;safetyhazards,
you know forworker safety;you know, ocean requirements. So, we, likeIsaid,we're
not tryingto put the kibosh on the bill.We justwant to help you create a billthat's
legallysound and then, also,the departments that have to carryout thiswork actually
can do it.Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 271
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, Chair, can I have Mr. Forrest respond to those. I don't
understand why they'resaying would immediately become noncompliant when we're
not even, it'snot even going intoeffecttillJanuary 1. And then, there'sthree years.
So, some of thisstuffthatwe're hearing,1,justisbeyond why they would even repeat
those kinds of things. But Ijustwant, would likeMr. Forrestto address what was just
said.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Forrest.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Thank you. Chair. I would just say that the OCS
attorneys have worked collaborativelyon this bill.And we support the bill,we, or I
guess we stand behind the legalityof the bill.Ithinkthe easiest thing to say is,you
know, Hawaii County does this,they enforce this. Ithinkwe're aila little,you know . .
. For our departments not to callHawaii County, that probably be the firststep I'd
recommend. But the main pointisthatwe do stand behind the bill.Itislegallydrafted.
It'slegallyenforceable. And that'sreallyall.And, you know, from the Committee bill
thatwas voted on by sixmajority,we've only broadened the exceptions to,to address
other issues from the Police,forexample. So, you know, Ithinkthatthat firstbillwas
perfectlylegal.We've improved itby expanding the exceptions and we stand behind
our bill.Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,ifImay, can Iask one more question of Mr. Forrest?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mr. Forrest,can you speak to the issue of the lightsthat
Department of Public Works has bought that are noncompliant? The, you know, they
brought thatup thatthey have $4 millionworth of lightsthatthey can'tuse.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Yes. Thank you, Chair. I,I understand that that
purchase was made a few years ago. There was a problem with installingthe lights.
There was a legalcase involved.Those lightshave not been installed.I,1thinkitwas
described by a testifierearlier,is that that was a purchase that shouldn't have been
made inthe firstplace.
1thinkyou could mitigateyour damages. You could maybe sellthose lightsto someone
on the mainland. There is a after-market filterthat could go on those lightsthat could
make them compliant. There are options going forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 272
What I,Ithink the difference between this and, and forexample, the Hawaii exemptions
isthatLED lightslasta long time. And Idon'tthinkthe experts would want you to put
up an LED lightthatisnot compliant,because itmight lastfor20 years. And thatwould
mean thatyou're livingwith 20 years of environmental damage. So, Ithinkthat'sfor,
for those lightsin particular,there are ways to mitigatedamages. But using them at
thispointwould be contraryto Ithinkwhat the Committee had decided at the previous
meeting and what the publictestifiedtoday.
CHAIR LEE: Isee Member Paltinhas a question.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. So, the lightsthatyou said thatare stillin
the boxes are Public Works lightsand you thinkthat Parks lightscan have a filteror a
shield? Or are they the same lights.Parks lightsand Public Works lights?
CHAIR LEE: Isthisa question forMr. Forrest?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Mr. Forrest.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: And Chair Lee, thank you. This iscoming from the
manufacturer Bob Adams. And he has told Public Works that he could make a filter
for theirlightsthat would make them compliant. That filter,he estimated would cost
$100 per light.So, thatisa significantcost of somewhere around $500,000. So when
you'retalkingabout an investment of $4 million,maybe that'sthe way to go. Again,
the other option isto sellthose lightsand buy compliant lights.
For Parks and Recreation, Ithink Mr. Adams could make an after-marketfilterforjust
about any light.But he would also say thatthe existinglightsare stillexempt forthree
years, so you don't have to do thisrightaway. You have, we made that exemption
broad fora reason and we do thisoften. It'slikephase-in,you know, a phase-in rule.
So, we're givingeveryone three years to comply and we're givingsuppliersthree years
noticethat,hey, come to Maui and sellyour lights.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Mr. Whittaker.
CHAIR LEE: And then, Isee Deputy Whittaker.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: Thank you. Chair. I'mfamiliarwiththe
litigationand, and the lights,so Ican give you a littlebitof background. So, the only
thing that was established in the litigationis we have to get an environmental
assessment, which the Public Works Department has. I encourage Council to wait
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 273
until the results of that environmental assessment are public,because Ithinkwhat it
willshow is that the lightsthat we have purchased are fine for an environmental
assessment.
Secondly, our Public Works Department likelywillnot purchase those filtersfrom Bob
Adams, who made a lotof money from the Big Island,because they change, they affect
the safety of the light.There's no industrystandards forthese filters.They're not
commonly used. He does sellthem, but we can'tbe sure thatthey'resafe and they
won't cause a firehazard, which iswhy our PublicWorks Department would have to
effectivelyget ridof what they have and purchase new LED lights.
CHAIR LEE: Comments, anyone?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Just to reiterate that the lightsthatwere purchased are
harmful to the seabirds. That's what we're tryingto change. And, you know, that'sthe
choice we're making. Do we want tothrow bad money aftergood, or good money after
bad, whatever the saying is,you know? You, you. the money was spent, they were,
those lightsare not the type of lightsthatwe want.
You know, ifwe're going to pass thisbill,they'renot going to be compliant because
they don't protectthe seabirds. So, that'skind of the bottom linehere iswhat, you
know, it'sa policyissue whether we want to move ahead. But, you know. I'm,I'm
confidentthat thisis a good bill,thatwe've given plentyof time,we've, we've given
plentyof exemptions. There's time forfolksto get through whatever permit issues they
have to inthe next six months before the billeven goes intoeffect.So, justliketo get
the,get to the vote. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sugimura, forthe lasttime.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Cannot ignore what Keola Whittaker has shared
about the 2 percent blue lightand, and the other,you know, informationthathe gave
us. And I think that ifwe want to, you know, keep thisdiscussion going, that more
discussion is needed than what we have before us for the originalbillwith the ASF.
And I think this is serious, you know. I,yeah, you know, we allwant to protectthe
environment and everything,but we also have a fiduciaryor fiscalresponsibilityto
make sure that,you know, the Departments are going to run safe and they'regoing to
have the rightequipment. Ithinkthat'spartof a big responsibilitythatwe have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 274
And I'm sorry ifI,you know, bringingthisup at thistime, it'slikenow midnight. But I
believe that it'simportant enough that it'ssomething thatwe allneed to decide. And if
we as a Council are going to decide that we don't,you know, itdoesn't matter,
whatever, the departments have shared with us, then that'sa decisionthatyou willlive
with.
But Ibelievethatthe departments came out strong today and shared with us what they,
what theiropinionwas on thisoutdoor lighting.So, my amendments are tryingto make
this bill,which looks liketo me, you know, the general sentiment, looks likeyou want
to pass it.But tryto,you know, provide the exemptions so that,you know, maybe the
departments could livewith itand, and the residents could livewith it. But I believe
that the billhas a lotof,a lotmore to go.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so Member King, would you consider a compromise, likean additional
extension to July 1,you know, so thatthere'senough time to study the resultsfrom the
EA?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, ifthat'swhat folks want to do, Chair. But the EA does not
address what we're tryingto do, the protection. The EA isjust an environmental
assessment. Itdoesn't,itdoesn't protect,it'snot going to tellyou ifit'sgoing to protect
the seabirds, which isthe whole purpose of thisbill.So, there'sanother purpose for
the, unless, unless I'm wrong about that Mr. Whittaker. Are you guys, are you guys
doing studies on seabirds? Cause Idon't know how you could do itin such a short
period of time.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Whittaker.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER: I believe the results of the EA will come
out withintwo weeks. So, ifyou could wait on thisuntilthen,thatwould be extremely
helpful.And itisan environmental assessment, so itindicatesit'sa scientificstudy as
to the environmental impact of the precise kind of lightsthatwe may throw away. So,
Iwould justwait untilyou see that.
Secondly, it'sweird thatwe're modeling afterthe Big Island,because Kauai did a multi
year study to protectseabirds specifically,withthe Federal and State government, and
they came up with a conservation plan. And they look at Penniman's research and
they rejected it.They concluded that there'sno scientificevidence thatthe birdsare
attracted to the blue lightspectrum more than any other spectrum. What they did
conclude isthatthe birdsare attractedto brightlights.And so, what they did on Kauai
is they developed plans to reduce bright lightsthrough shielding and other policies.
And, you know, that'ssomething you may want to look at in Committee. But the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 275
Federal and State governments are not asking us to put in the blue lightrestriction.
That's not what Kauai did. Big Islanddid itfora differentreason.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right. So, your EA won't address the,the seabirds. But can I
can Ijustask Mr. Forrestto respond to that?
CHAIR LEE: Sure. Mr. Forrest? Mr. Forrest?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ...unmuted.
CHAIR LEE; Well,folks,what do you want to do with this?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Let's see.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Mr. Forrest,are you there? Iknow he wanted to respond, so.
CHAIR LEE: James?
Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, you know, MIL Joe Balangitao was in the chambers
today and he had great concerns about thisbill.And, and Ithinkwe need thatthe
departments expressed prettyloud and clear,you know, especiallyPublicWorks. And
that there isa concern from Parks Department.
And interesting,Johnson Control said there's250 differentkind of light,Idon'tknow if
it'sfixtures,but lightsthatthey have as partof the work thatthey are doing forus and
itwould be to our benefit to understand what is the financialimpact ofwhat we're trying
to do with this light,with this outdoor lightingbilland what isthe impact Johnson
Controls 250 differentlightfixturesfrom allthe differentdepartments. I'm not sure
when their...auditisgoing to be completed. Ithinkit'sstillongoing. But there'sall
kind of impacts. Ithinkthatwe stillneed to discuss this.
CHAIR LEE: Ithink Isaw Mr., what's his name?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Forrest.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: James Forrest.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Forrest, Isaw come back. Okay, Mr. Forrest,do you have comments?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 276
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Okay, can you hear me now, Chair Lee?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST; Okay. Sorry, I had to switch to my computer. You
know, overallcomments is a lotof, Ifeel likeprettymuch of the discussion between
the lawyers ispolicyand not actuallegalissues. We did,we decided to model this
after Hawaii because of the Kauai rule and the Kauai settlement isvery flawed. Iwas
a Corp. Counsel in,in Kauai and that that,theirlightingbillis laughable. Itdoesn't
work. That'sthe reason why we didn'tbase itoffof Kauai.
And, you know, overall,the lightingforthe,forthe streetlightsisjusta very small part
of thisbill,I,I,it,Idon'tthinkitjustifiesdelayingthe bill.And again,thatenvironmental
study is not a blue lightstudy based on Maui specificbirds. . . .whenever the lights
were purchased by, you know. Public Works, they should have done thatstudy four
years ago. And again, PublicWorks probably should have contacted Maui County six
months ago. I don't see any problem with compliance. We've had manufacturers,
we've had distributors,the lightsare available. We expanded the exceptions so that
other lightscan be used.
From the billthat passed. I'm not quite sure what we could actuallydo ifwe send it
back to Committee. We've already done it.We've expanded itjustmore than, almost
more than makes sense. But we've expanded itto comply with objectionsfrom the
Police, and the Fire, and the baseball fields,and the footballpeople. We've covered
them all.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else with,with something thathas not alreadybeen said?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair? I see Mr., I see Mr. Penniman. So, can we justask him
ifhe wants to make any comments?
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Penniman? Mr. Penniman?
MR. PENNIMAN: Yes, thank you forthe considerationof allthese issues. Ifinditinteresting
thatwe're listeningto Johnson Controls,who was a vendor. And Member Sugimura
complained about vendors that provided to the Big Islandmaking money by selling
lightshere. Johnson Controls isdoing the same thing. Ithinkyou have a vendor who
has a vested interestinthe lightsthatthey provide. It,it'squiteclear,worldwide,that
we are on a path to eliminatingshortwavelength lightat night,and Maui needs to be
a partof thatcommunity doing that. It'sseabirds thatbenefit,and itsway beyond that.
It'sthe coral reefcommunity. It'sthe human health issue. It'sinvertebrates.This,this
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 277
ordinance is,itwilldo exactly as Councilmember King desires,isto buildresiliencyin
our ecologicalsystem here.
And, and I don't know how much more we can say to allof you. You are working
incrediblylate at night. I cannot believe how able you are to keep up these
conversations and Ihonor you fordo, doing it.It'sbeen an education,forsure,to see
you. And I just,I believe that this is the billthat we should be forwarding to an
ordinance. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? No repetitionnow, okay.
Member Sugimura. Don't repeat because it'suseless.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I'mnot repeating.
IWOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO RECOMMIT THIS BILL
BACK TO COMMITTEE.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Wait, didn'tyou have a motion on the flooralready?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, the-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, to replace--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The exemptions.
CHAIR LEE: The exemptions, right.Do you want to take a, do you want to take a, you want
to withdraw thatand put your other motion forward?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: To continue the discussion, sure.
CHAIR LEE: So, so. can you withdraw your second, Mr. Molina?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 278
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
I WITHDRAW MY SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what isyour new motion, Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I WANT TO MAKE A MOTION TO RECOMMIT THIS BACK TO
COMMITTEE SO WE CAN HAVE AN EXTENSION, EXTENSIVE
DISCUSSION. THAT'S MY MOTION.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Discussion,Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Well, Ithinkyou can tellthat there's,you know, issues out
there and we're having Committee work in Council. So, the departments came out
strong and, you know, wanted to . . . also in considerationwhat Corp. Counsel said
about the blue lightand everything,2 percent blue lightand what theirresearch was,
as well as, you know, the work that OCS, Mr. Forrest istalkingabout, and as well as,
and justgive ita better,you know, more rounded shot with the departments included.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. The reason Iwould liketo at
leasthave one more meeting, you know, any, well,firstof all,letme thank my colleague
from South Maui Member King. You know, you're taking thisbillto a differentlevel.
You know, now it'sresidents, businesses, and so forth. And certainly,the cause is
good.
But,you know, apparently,it'scausing some discomfort,not only withthe department,
but some other folks out there. So, sometimes it'sgood to just,you know, take a, you
know, take itback just a littlebit. And then, thisway, we get allour bases covered,
cause whenever you do a bill,you need to always hear both sides. And I'vealways
taken thatapproach with legislationthat Iput out,make sure,sometimes ittakes a little
longer,but sometimes it'sworth takingthe time too. So, that'sjustmy take.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 279
Imean, ifitdoesn't go back, so be it.But, you know, because itdoes take the billto a
new level,so which iswhy it'simportant to hear when you have these culturalgroups
come out or,you know, the Obon with theirconcerns, maybe we should listen,at least
listen.An opportunityone finaltime and then whatever. But Idefinitelydon'twant to
take itpast one more Committee meeting, that'sfor sure. But it'sup to thisbody.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Ispeak againstthe motion. Chair. Everybody keeps bringingup
the same groups that we've already addressed. We've already addressed the Obon
dances. The person who brought that up was fine with the exception. The Fire
Department, the Police Department are fine.The Parks Department had an issuewith
baseballs that might go too high,and you heard what Junya Nakoa had to say about
that.
So, you know, we've listenedto the concerns and that'swhat, that'swhy the billisthe
way itis. That's why we expanded the exemptions. So, my, I,nothing,Idon'tthink
anything can be gained by taking thisback to Committee, except a lotof people are
going to be very upset thatwe didn'tdo the rightthing. So, I'm against that motion.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Just to letyou know how I'mgoing to vote.I'mgoing to vote "no"
on the motion, mainly because we've had a lotof discussionon this.However, as this
becomes an activeand, and implemented, I'm hoping to make the changes. Yeah, I
mean, we allshould be forevery, actually,every ordinance thatwe pass. So, Ifeel
that thisis,gives people some time, some elbow room. So, that'swhy I'm not overly
concerned. And, and Iknow you've tried.Iknow, Member King,you've triedtoday,all
day, triedto accommodate the people who have been coming inwith their,with their
concerns. So, Ijustwant to letyou know where Iam.
Anybody else? Okay, ready forthe--
Yes, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Sorry. Just so we're clear,so the motion on the floorrightnow
isto send itback to Committee. Now, ifthat fails,then we gottatake a vote on the bill
itself.Am Icorrect? Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 280
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Okay, let'stake a rollcall,Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: NO.
CHAIR LEE: He said "no".
COUNTY CLERK: What was the vote? Oh. no.
CHAIR LEE: He said "no".
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: Louder.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: NO.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: YES.
CHAIR LEE: Aye. Isyour vote "aye"?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 281
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: !said "yes".
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: For real? What about now? Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ALRIGHT, I,I.ISAID NO.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA AND SUGIMURA.AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. PALTIN
SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
COUNTY CLERK: So, that'ssix "noes", two "ayes", and one "excused".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, the motion now isto pass thisbill.
Member King,did you make the motion before this?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I did. I did.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, the motion on the floornow isto pass thisbill.Any more discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 282
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, Ithink we need a motion on the ASF, sorry. Isthatwhat you
were going to say?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Yes, Idon't know what we're voting on. There's
justa bill,there was some amendments, Idon't know.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, so-
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I did make a motion on the amendment, so that's what we're
voting on first,the ASF.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Allthose infavorofthe AS, the amendment, well
wait a minute. Do we need to,Iguess we do, rollcall.Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: This isthe replacement, right?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. This isthe amendment, yeah.
AYE. AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 283
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura,
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Tasha, Council Pro Temp Tasha
Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Councilmember, Council Vice-Chair
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
COUNTY CLERK: That'seight"ayes",and one "excused"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE; So, the main motion as amended. Any more discussion? Ail,iseverybody
going to say "aye".
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. Chair, I would like to speak. And I see
Ms. Thomson. I'llyieldto Ms. Thomson.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Ms. Thomson.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you, Chair. I'llmake itbrief.The ASF
exempted sports and certainpublicsafetyfrom the blue lightcontent,but itdoes not
exempt them from the shielding.Idon'tknow ifthatwas a draftingerroror ifthatwas
intentional,so Iwanted to check with Member King to see ifshe did it,indeed want to
not exempt sports and the emergency servicesfrom the shieldingrequirement.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 284
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Are you talkingabout the provisionthatsays, "alloutdoor lighting
fixtures"?Itsays, "are exempt from the provisionsofthose subsections"?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes. It’sdown near, farther down to the
bottom.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . ..from the provisions.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: And the parks and facilitiesmay remain
exempt from Subsection 20.30.060(D). D isregarding blue light.E isthe requirement
that the lightsare fullyshielded. So, Iwanted to make sure that you do not intend to
allow those uses to be exempt from the shieldingrequirement.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Well,can I,can Iask Mr. Forrestto speak to that,because
he drafted the bill?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Forrest? Mr. Forrest?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. IfCorp.
Counsel thinks we need to add language to make that clear,we can. Ithink you could
justsay thatthe,those lightingsare exempt from thisChapter.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Thomson? Ms. Thomson, isthatsatisfactory?
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Thank you. Chair. Yes. So, ratherthan
referencingSubsection 20.30.060(D), itwould justsay, "may remain exempt from this
Chapter beyond the three-yearperiod". Isthatcorrect,Mr. Forrest?
LEGISLATIVE ATTORNEY FORREST: Yes. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Isthat okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's fine. Do we need a, can we make a friendlyamendment
or do we need to make a motion?
CHAIR LEE: I think we're going to need a motion, but let'sgo to Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez. She had her hand up.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 285
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Okay, sorry,Iforgot.So. Iwillhold
offon my discussion untilafterthisdiscussion isfinished.And I’llwriteitdown, so I
don'tforget.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we're not takingthe vote on the main motion as amended yet. Okay,
so ifyou can make this other amended, amendment. Can you repeat what you
amended?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, can you repeat that,Richelle,cause it'sgettinglate. I
forgotwhat you said.
CHAIR LEE: Richelle,Richelle,can you-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Exempt from thisChapter.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Exactly. So, thisis from the ASF form, it's
about fivelinesfrom the bottom. "County parks and facilities,etc.may remain exempt
from thisChapter beyond the three-year period".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
SO, INSTEAD, SO SUBSTITUTE IN THAT SECTION
20.30.060(D) FOR THIS CHAPTER.
FIRST DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, that'sthe motion to-
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And it'sseconded by Member Johnson. Ithinkthere'sno discussion
necessary. Do we need rollcall,everybody? No rollcall.Okay. Allthose infavorof
the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 286
CHAIR LEE; Okay, eight,let'ssee, iseverybody on the call? Oh, Tamara isnot. Tamara
are you voting "aye"?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; She's there. She's, she's coming in and out of the waves there.
CHAIR LEE; Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; But I see her.
CHAIR LEE; Carissa Moore. Alright,eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Member
Tasha Kama. Motion carries.
Now, the main motion as amended. Did you say, Member, Vice-Chair, you have a
comment, or-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLiNS-FERNANDEZ; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; -suggestion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay, so this isfirstreading on thisbill.And so, the
next,second reading isgoing to be on July 15. And that's,okay, Iguess the question
isfor Mr. Whittaker. Did he request two weeks forus to consider holding offon taking
action, well,finalaction? So, this is an action that we would be taking today ifwe were
to pass iton firstreading. But do you anticipatethat EA being published before
July 15?
CHAIR LEE; Mr. Whittaker?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL WHITTAKER; Thank you, Chair. So, Ihave a meeting
with the Public Works Department next week to discuss the preliminaryEA. Iexpect
itcan be released soon thereafter.Ican'tguarantee you itwillbe done by the 15, but
itwill be released soon.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay. Okay, and then, the otherthingwas regarding
allthe concerns thatwe heard from allthe departments and others. So, they didn'tget
to see the ASF before they testifiedand sometimes, you know, conceptuallythe idea
of a proposal sounds likesomething you would be supportiveof,but you always want
to see, you know, the actual language on paper. And so. I'mhoping thatMember King
willbe able to work with,you know, ensure thatallthe departments have theirconcerns
all addressed.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 287
And then,forsecond reading,we won't be here tillmidnight. Iknow itwasn't only the
lightingbill.Cause then,you know, ifit,ifit,ifon second reading we get the same kind
of concerns being raised by our departments, then Imay feelcompelled to send itback
to Committee for work so that itcan, allthe concerns can fullybe addressed by, or by
us forour departments. Okay. Mahaio, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any comments? Okay, ifnot,ready forthe vote? The vote isthe main motion
as amended. Do we need a rollcall?
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, rollcall.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember KellyTakaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
CHAIR LEE: You said "no".
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Kama.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1.2022
Page 288
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Alice, Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
COUNTY CLERK: That'sseven "ayes' one "no", and one "excused".
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members. And thank you, Mr. Penniman, forstaying
up latewith us.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Let'shitthe lastone.
COMMITTEE REPORT
NO. 22-52 PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
(2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCERecommending that Bill
AMENDING CHAPTER 19.26, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PERMITTED
USES IN THE M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT," be FILED.
82
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT NO. 22-52.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 289
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Paltin,second by Member Sinenci,to approve the committee
report,the recommendation inCommittee Report 22-52.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee met on June 2, 2022, and discussed Bill82 to include Apartments as
permitted uses inthe M-2 Heavy IndustrialDistrictwhen certaincriteriaare met.
Your Committee received writtenand oraltestimony relatingto concerns of livingin
close proximityto noxious fumes, loud noises, and possible unsafe livingconditions.
The Planning Directorsaid the proposed billwould help to create housing inareas with
existinginfrastructure.
Your Committee discussed the Change inZoning foreach parcelseparatelyinsteadof
creating a blanket exemption for residentialuse inthe M-2 Heavy IndustrialDistrict.
Your Committee voted 5-4 to recommend filingof Bill82 (2022). Irespectfullyask for
the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I appreciate the work that was done in Committee.
Unfortunately,iwasn't there. Ithinkthatthere'sstill,work could be done on thisand I
would, Iwould liketo request that itbe brought intothe Affordable Housing Committee
ifthe body would allow it.Ithinkthere'slessons Ilearned from Helsinkion howto, you
know, Ihear itallthe time, but one more tool inthe toolbox. But basically,there'sways
to cleanup heavy industrialand make livablecommunities. I,Igot a map here, Ididn't
want to,itprobably won't show up. But basically-
CHAIR LEE: Can't, can't see it.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I'lljustexplain it.I'lljustexplain it.There is,there was a
deep-water harbor that Helsinkihad just like,you know, where allof theirMatson
containers came in. Ittook them 15 years, they cleaned itup, and now it'sgot mixed
use with affordablehousing and market-rate house. It'sa very beautifulcommunity.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 290
So, Ithinkthatthere isways we could take some of our underused M-2 zones and
modify them and take care ofthem, and then put people thereinapartments. So, that's
my suggestion up to,but it'sup to the body. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin,do you mind?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes. We've heard pretty consistent testimony, you know,
throughout the community planning process. For West Maui Community Plan,we were
repeatedly toldthat Heavy Industrialiswhere the most noxious uses are. Ihad talked
with Member Kama's aide about pursuing the change inzoning. Irepeat my sentiment
from lastweek, that what we're tryingto do is,ifwhat we're tryingto do is create
housing, ifwe're tryingto create affordablehousing and people want live,work, play,
in the Queen Kaahumanu Center, in the Kaahumanu transit-orientedcorridor,the way
to do itisnot to allow apartments inHeavy Industrial.The way to do itisto speak with
the owners ofthe place.
Ifthey are not doing Heavy Industrialuses now, Idon't see what's wrong with taking
Heavy Industrialoff the table. Ifwe're, ifwe're talking about making itaffordable
housing, what message does thatsend? If,ifyou can'tafforda place to live,we can
put you where our noxious uses are. There's other ways. There's likea 1,001 ways
to, Idon't want to say skin a cat,but something; climb a mountain. And, and I'm,I'm
allfor apartments at Kaahumanu Center, but not by not taking offHeavy Industrial
noxious uses off the table, you know. They want to, ifthey're open to putting
apartments there, then let'shave that discussion. Let'sdo it. But not by not taking
Heavy Industrialnoxious uses offthe table.
Because the way the billiswritten,itjustsays, you know, you can'tdo itwithin500 feet
or whatever. But then, you buildthe apartments and then they say, well.I'm zoned
Heavy Industrial,Iwant to do chemical manufacture. Nothing isstopping them. And,
and I'm not saying don'tpursue another avenue. There's change inzoning. There's
startinga new bill.We're on a Charter deadline on this.
And, and, you know, ifwe startwith our own bill,then we're startingwith our own bill.
We're not using,likelegislationfrom the Planning Department, who we repeatedly hear
they'reofftheirrocker,you know. Allday long,every day, they'remaking bad decisions
and we're the ones cleaning itup. Ifwe're going to make a decision,let'smake a good
decision from the start and network off their leftovers. That's my gist.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
July 1. 2022
Page 291
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Appreciate those points,Councilmember. Iwould counter
them with the idea of we, we would modify and rewritesome of the, some of that bill.
And Ithink,you know, ifwe go back to change in zoning, you are, we are going to
extend the timeline. It'sgoing to be taking a lotlonger. Iknow you use the example
of Queen Kaahumanu Center but remember there's also the parcel that is in West
Maui, in Lahaina, righton Lahainaluna Road, where the school buses park, rightby
the smokestack that there'sno longer Heavy Industrialthere now. There's a coffee
shop inthe parking lot,right?
So, there's,that,Iknow like,Ihear what you'resaying isthe idea thatlike,you know,
the billcame inand you didn'tlikeit.But my proposal would be, we would take itand
we would, we would change itaround so itwould be protectiveof our,our,our folks
who need housing first,right? Can't have housing firstmotto with no housing. So, I
mean, it's,I'masking, it'sa debate we could have inmy Committee. And its,you know,
we can vote it,iton itinthere ifyou like.But Ithinkitwould be, itcould be, there’sa
nugget inthere,you know, inthatbill.So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let'snot have to,a debate now.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. The coffee production is in use. I have
gotten complaints from constituentslivingacross the streetfrom the coffee place that
when it'sin production itgoes allnightand the dust fliesintotheirplace. There's a
junkyard going on. We don't have space forjunkyards on the other side of the Heavy
Industrial. And we have a lot of abandoned vehicles in West Maui similar to East Maui.
And ifwe change itsignificantlyso thatit'samenable, ithas to go back tothe Planning
Commission anyway. So, startfrom scratch with a new billand send itto the Planning
Commission and then have itcome back to us.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else?
Okay, forthe lasttime. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Certainly. Last, lastand final.The, Iwatched the video on
the lastmeeting and my understanding was itdid not have to go to the Planning
Commission. I think that was a question Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez
had asked. But that'salllwant to say. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,who else had theirhand up?
Member King.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 292
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. You know, something comes directlyfrom the
Planning Department, !guess, and itdoesn't have to go through the Council to go to
the Planning Department, to Planning Commission, iswhat Iremember. But we have
heavy industrial,Ireallyappreciatewhat you'retryingto do, Mr. Johnson, but we have
Heavy Industrialareas fora reason, because there isheavy industrialoperations that
have to happen on our island. And Idon'twant to see them get pushed out,and I've
seen this in other communities. . . . and they startcomplaining about the Heavy
Industrialuse and pretty soon everybody just wants them out. Those areas were
chosen fora reason to be Heavy Industrial,and that'swhy I'mnotforblanketlyrezoning
all of them.
Iwould totallysupport Queen Kaahumanu Center ifthey wanted to put some housing
around there and they wanted to do a change in zoning for theirhousing ifit's,you
know, and they,and they work with the Heavy Industrialthat'snearby and don't put it
rightnext to it. But Ithink itneeds to happen on a case-by-case basis and not be
blanket. Ifyou wanted to do something like,likeLightIndustrial,Ithinkthat might be
more hopeful. And I would probably reallyappreciate that discussion, but it'sjust
putting Heavy Industrialwith housing, itjust doesn't,and maybe it'sbecause I've
worked, you know, I had a business that was Heavy Industrialand so I'veseen this
kind of thing happen where housing goes in,and the Heavy Industrialgoes out. So,
that'swhy I'minfavoroffilingit.And I,Ido thinkthere needs to be a new bill,probably
tryto do something likethiswith Light IndustrialZoning. That's all.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci,
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair,and mahalo for the discussion. And Idid
want to commend Member Johnson for his willingnessto, to increase affordable
housing inour County. At the lastmeeting, Ididvote against the rezoning. Ithink,and
my reasons were changing ailof the Heavy Industrialjustforthisone project.And that
was, that day, we just was the firstday that we actually heard that the Queen
Kaahumanu Center wanted, or was considering housing. And Itoo support housing in
that area, in itsproximityto the, the corridor. But likeMember King, I'dliketo see
maybe more stack, possiblystacked zoning withinthe Light Industrialfirstand, and
then maybe go from there. So, Iknow thatitwould stillhave to go through a community
plan amendment, so I'm open to hearing a new billat thispoint. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I,Iwas open to allowingthisgo back
to, or not go back, but go to the Affordable Housing Committee for proposed
amendments. But for me, Ijust,I don't think there reallycould be any amendments
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 293
thatcould be made that Iwould be supportive,thatwould make me supportive of this
bill.
Echoing the comments of Member Paltin,Member King, and Member Sinenci, and
adding to that in differentwords, that I,I said thisin the lastmeeting, I don’t want to
take away the community's abilityto vet project by project. And by changing the
permissible use in Heavy Industrialwould, would do that, Ifeel. And Iwant to make
sure thatthe community has thatabilityto hold those developers accountable to what
the intentionwas, and not justgive,you know, developers the green lightby changing
the zoning, by changing the permissibleuse inthe zoning. Mahalo, Member Johnson.
I'm sorry,but I'llbe supportingthe motion to file.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: And Member Johnson, Iagree with you. Ido see a nugget inthisas well. If
you look atthe area, the reason why itwas zoned Heavy Industrial,because there was
a pineapple cannery there many moons again. And Ican, Ican tellyou Imade history
there when Iwas 16 years old. Iledthe walkout of allthe summer students thatwere
working in the cannery due to long hours and bad conditions.And thatwas the first
and only walkout, so I'mvery familiarwith the cannery. But since then, it'sbeen torn
down, and it'scovered with warehouses and offices. So, there's,there'sno opportunity
for,forHeavy Industrial.Not because of me, but it'sjustbecause of the times.
So, anyway, whether, whether itsfiledor not filed,I'msure you can, you can pickitup
again, take itinyour Committee, and make something out of it.Cause I'msure you
learned a lotin Helsinkiand it'staking opportunitieslikethiswhere allthe accessories
and amenities are close by, you know. And it'svery rarethatyou can have a walkable,
workable community likethis.So, I,Iwant to vote withyou and hope thatyou pickthis
up at a laterdate.
Anybody else? Are, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, I'mgoing to.I'mgoing to vote to support Gabe. And
Ido thinkwhat he's actuallysaying isthat he wants to do something. So, fortonight,
we can see where the vote isgoing. I'm going to stand by you and, and thiswillget
filed,but iwillvote with Gabe.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,Members, ready forthe vote?
Madam Clerk, rollcall.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair, wait. Willyou repeat the motion?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1,2022
Page 294
CHAIR LEE: The motion is to file.
Madam Clerk. This isthe lastvote forthe night.
COUNTY CLERK: One moment.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Great, cause Iwas about to organize a walkout; long
hours, bad conditions.I'mjustkidding. I’mjustkidding. I'mjustkidding.Kind of.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember KellyTakaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.CHAIR LEE:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
July 1, 2022
Page 295
COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS KING. MOLINA. PALTIN,
SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.EXCUSED:
COUNTY CLERK: Five "ayes",three "noes",one "excused"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,everybody, it'stime to go to bed, yeah. And because, because you folks
talkedso much tonight,I'mgoing to play lousy tomorrow. Ijustknow it.My golfgame
isgoing to justgo south. But Ihope allof you have a wonderful time, and especially
those travelingto Lanai tomorrow. Hope you have a greattime on the Pineapple Isle.
Okay, any, anything else new? Anything coming up for anybody? Okay, so then,if
you are back home on Sunday, then we'llsee you at the rodeo. Right,and thisisa
long weekend so, you know, take care,drivecarefully.
Okay, so at thistime, where is my gavel? Here's my gavel. Itis 12:49. And this
Council meeting of July,well,itwas July 1,2022, isnow adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regularmeeting ofJuly 1,2022 was adjourned by the Chair on July2,2022 at 12:49 a.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220701/lks:jm
POLICE DEPARTMENT
COUNTY OF MAUI
MICHAEL P.VICTORINO
MAYOR
JOHN PELLETIER
CHIEF OF POLICE55 MAHALANI STREET
WAILUKU. HAWAII 96793
(808) 244-6400
FAX (808) 244-6411
June 28, 2022
OUR REFERENCE CHARLES L. HANK III
DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICEYOUR REFERENCE
Alice L. Lee, Council Chair
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers:
SUBJECT:
20.35 MCC, RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGHTING
BILL NO. 21 (2022), A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER
Thisbill,aswritten,excludesexemptionsfortemporaryemergency lightingwhich putsatirsk
thesafetyofourfirstrespondersand theirabilitytoservicethepublic.
Regardlessof thetimeofday,adequatelightingisnecessaryforus todo ourjob. We require
exceptionallightingto investigatemajor crimesscenes(suchas murder and rape)and fatal/near-fatal
trafficaccidentsinordertoproperlyrecreatethesceneand collectvitalevidencenecessaryforsuccessful
prosecution in criminal matters.
We alsousebrightlightstosearchformissingpersonsand fugitives.The former has a critical
needastimeisoftheessencewhen initiatingthesearch.
Restrictingour lightingwillalso affecthow we conduct effective intoxication and traffic
enforcementcheckpointswhere properilluminationiscriticaltotheoperationas wellas thesafetyof
our officersand thepublic.
In addition,thisbillwould affectallemergencylightingincludingportablelightssuch as the
strobelightson our vehicles.We transitionedto theLED technologyspecificallyforitshighvisibility
duringallhours,which isa publicsafetyissue.
Pleaseconsiderincludingthesenecessarysafetyexemptionsforthepoliceas wellasallour other
emergency serviceprovidersintheinterestof thepublicwe serve.
Ifyou have any questions,pleasecontactAssistantChief Gregg Okamoto at(808)244-6415
by email atGrega.Okamoto@mpd.net
or
Si
3
JOHN^LLETIERChief of Police
EARTHJUSTICE received
JUN30 ftf7:57
YCODE,
5ICEOF THEonty clerk
TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF BILL 21, CD 1
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20.35,MAVl COUl
RELATING TO PROTECTING SEABIRDS FROM OUTDOOR LIGPC
(CARE Committee ReportNo. 22-47(FirstReading))
Maui County Council
July1,2022
9:00 a.m.
Good morning,ChairLee,Vice-ChairRawlins-Femandez,and members oftheCouncil:
My name isDavid Lane Henkin,and Iam an attorneywith Earthjustice.’Earihjusticesubmits
thistestimonyon behalfoftheCenterforBiologicalDiversityand ConservationCouncilfor
Hawai‘iinstrongsupportofBill21,CD 1,which would amend Maui County's lighting
ordinancetoincreaseprotectionsforHawaii's threatenedand endangered seabirds.Bill21 is
consistent with the best available science on how to minimize harm toimperiledseabirdsfrom
artificiallights.Bill21 alsoprovidesclearguidanceon how toimplement thesenew lighting
requirementswith minimal burden on diecommunity. For thesereasons,the Council should
adopt thismeasure as a win-win forthecommunity and Hawaii's nativeseabirds.
ArtificialEghtsinMaui County regularlyattractand disorientHawaiian petrels,band-rumped
storm petrels,and Newell'sshearwatersas theynavigatebetween theocean and nesting
colonies,resultinginfallout,injury,and death.Stateand federalwildlifeagencieschargedwith
helpingtopreventthesespeciesfrom goingextinctrecognizethatartificialitghtattractionposes
an ongoingthreattothespecies'survivaland recovery.Bestpracticestominimize light
attraction,and helppreventextinction,includereducingshortwavelength"blueitght"in
outdoorlightingfixtures,preventingoutdoorlightingfrom shiningupward or overtheocean,
and eliminatingreflectivesurfacesthatbounce itghtintothesky.Bill21 would require
compliancewith itiesebestpracticestogiveour nativeseabirdsitiebestchanceofsurvival.
To addressconcernsaboutincreasedregulatoryburdensforbusinessesand residents.Bill21,
CD 1 providesa reasonablephase-inperiodforthereplacementofexistingoutdoor lighting.See
ProposedSection20.35.070.B(exemptingexistinglightingforthreeyears).Bill21,CD 1 also
facilitatescompliancewiththenew lightingrequirementsby adoptingthedefinitionof"blue
tightcontent"found inHawai‘iCounty'slightingordinance.^Using thesame definitionof
"blueitghtcontent"providesconsistencyforbusinessesoperatinginboth locations,and also
*Iam registeredasa lobbyist.
2Compare Proposed Section20.35.060.DloithHawai‘i County Code § 14-51(a)(9);seealso
Hawai‘iCounty Code § 14-55,Table14-A (specifyingthatLED fixturesmust have "lessthan 2%
blue itghtcontent").
850 RICHARDS STREET. SUITE 400MID-PACIFIC HONOLULU. HI 96813
T: 808.599.2436 MP0FFICE$ EARTHJUSTICE.ORGF: 808.521.6841 WWW.EARTHJUSTICE.ORG
EarthjusticeTestimonyInSupportOf Bill21,CD 1 (FirstReading)
July1,2022,Maui County Council
Page 2
providesa templateforimplementationgiventhatHawai‘iCounty'sblue-lightcontent
requirementhasbeoi on thebooksformore thana decade.Finally,thebillprovidesthatthe
directorofpublicworks willmaintaina listoflightfixturesthatcomply witiilighting
requirements.SeeProposedSection20.35.060.F.These provisionswillensurea smooth
transitiontoseabirdfriendlylightinginMaui County and reduceany regulatoryburdenson
thecommunity.®
Bill21,CD 1 isa crucialstepforwardforseabirdconservationinMaui County and providesa
clearpathforwardforbusinessesand residencestoinstallseabirdfriendlylighting.For these
reasons,we respectfullyurge theCounty Counciltopass thisbill.
Thank you fortheopportunitytoprovidethistestimonyinstrongsupportofBill21,CD 1.1
willbe availableattheCouncilmeetingtoanswerany questionsyou may have.Ican alsobe
reachedviaemailatdhenkin@earthjustice.orgorviatelephoneat808-599-2436.
®The CorporationCounsel'sproposaltodefinepermissibleoutdoorlightingintermsof
theCorrelatedColorTemperature(CCT),measured indegreesKelvin—ratherthanthespecific
percentageofshortwavelength light—failstoincorporatethelatestscienceon how bestto
minimize harm toimperiledseabirdsfrom artificiallighting.The CCT tellsyou onlyhow
yelloworbluetheoverallcoloroflightemittedfrom a lightbulb appears;ittellsyou absolutely
nothingaboutwhat percentageofthatlightismade up oftheshortwavelengthlightthatis
harmful toimperiledseabirds.Lightingmanufacturerscan reducetheCCT oftheirlighting
simplyby adding more longwavelengthlight,withoutreducingany oftheshortwavelength
lightthatattractsnativeseabirds,leadingtofalloutand associatedinjuryand dealh.Limitations
on harmful lightingneed tobe definedinterms ofthepercentageofshortwavelengthlight(as
theHawai'i County lightingordinancecurrentlydoes and as Bill21,CD 1 proposes),not in
terms ofdegreesKelvin.
r? MAUIi.- « CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSiNESS
TESTIMONY FOR JULY 1, 2022
Dear Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and
Members of the Maui County Council,
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would liketo provide testimony of the
followingitems fortoday’s Council Meeting.
Resolution 22-119/CR 22-56 - East Maui/Maui County Water Authority
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would liketo testifyon Resolution 22-
119 and the proposed amendment to expand this to allof Maui Coun
ty which proposes an amendment to the revised charterof the county of
Maui (1983),as amended, to establisha Maui County Community Water
Authorityand an East Maui Community Regional Board.
The Chamber would liketo request thatthisresolutionbe deferred to the
next Council term. We are already dealing with a big electionyear with
more candidates due to redistrictingas well as many Charter Amendment
questions thatalready had significantcommunity inputthrough the Char
terCommission. This isa very complicated issue thatneeds significant
vetting,exploration,and community input.We realizethatthe Board of
Water Supply spent a long time on thisitem,but we feelmore discussion
from experts on allsides isneeded.
Also, there isa charterquestion on the current ballotthatwould requirea
financialanalysisof any proposed amendments. This amendment has the
potentialto be very expensive increatingyet another new county agency
and a fullfiscaland management (as thisisa tremendous amount ofwa
tersystem management thatneeds to be wellunderstood) impact analysis
is important.This analysisshould be completed, with the resultsreleased
to the publicso they can understand allaspects of thisproposal before
considering the Charter Amendment.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
r? M AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSirr£-»$
This could also potentiallyresultinexpensive legaland eminent domain
challenges. Additionally,while we are not water system experts,we under
stand there isa lotto water system management and we feelyou should
hear from each of the current water system managers to betterunder
stand the annual expenses, upkeep, personnel requirements, experience
needed, etc.via a publicforum.
Lastly,while we understand thatCouncil can always suggest charter
amendments, however, on years where there isa Charter Commission we
stronglyfeelthatany proposed amendments should run though the Char
terCommission. This isa more transparent system where broader com
munity vettingcan occur by the publicand commission and items are re
viewed over a longer period of time,which isimportantgiven the signifi
cance of charteramendments and the factthatthey have to be placed on
the ballotwith community education.
For these reasons we respectfullyrequest that Resolution 22-119 CD1
and the proposed amendment to expand itfurtherto allof Maui County be
deferred to the next Council term.
Resolution 22-165 / CR 22-55 - Telework
The Maui Chamber has been supportive of telework over the lasttwo
years during the pandemic. Ifitisfound thatthisismore effectand effi
cientinservingthe publicand saves the county money versus duplicative
offices,we see thisas a valuable option.However, we feelmore vetting
needs to be done to present transparent options forthe publicto make an
informed choice, includingthe methodologies, cost fortelework and other
costs associated with thisoption.
Further, while we allunderstand the need to address climate change, the
language included to protectclimate change adaptation is broad, vague,
and feels disconnected to the section on telework. We feel this should be
a separated from the telework question.
62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
f"; M AUICHAMBEROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
While we feelthe option fortelework isa worthy discussion,we continue
to have concerns about additional charter amendments brought forthnow
versus inthe Planning Commission thisyear,where significanttime,com
munity testimony and vettingoccurred on proposed amendments.
Resolution 22-144 / CR 22-57 - Planning Commissions
The Maui Chamber of Commerce would like to offer our strong opposi
tion to Resolution 22-144 which proposes to amend the Maui County
Charterto establishplanningcommissions forallcommunity plan areas
on Maui, and dissolvethe Maui Planning Commission.
The Chamber urges the Council to filethisresolutionsince thisissue was
carefullydiscussed and thoroughly vetted inthe currentMaui County
Charter Commission. The Charter Commission amended their original
proposal to just require more geographic representation in the Maui Plan
ning Commission, and the Commission then accepted the Council’s
amended language on this. We feel this current amendment is a much
betteridea versus creatingadditionalcommissions.
We are already dealingwith a big electionyear with more candidates due
to redistricting,as well as many Charter Amendment questions that al
ready had significantcommunity inputthrough the Charter Commission.
We do not thinkthere isenough time forin-depthpublicdiscussion and
voter education on thistopic,given the currenttimeline.We believe we
should see what the voters decide on the current Charter Commission
proposal on the planning commissions before adding another amendment.
We also understood from the reportssubmitted to the Charter Commis
sion that creatingthese additionalplanning commissions would require
significantcost and greatlyincrease the number of volunteers needed to
62 North Market Street,Suite 302, Walluku, Hawaii 96793 808-244-0081 legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com
MAUI^ ft. 4 ^ CHAMBEROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF B US IN £55
serve. This isa time when we need to focus on priorityprojects.
Lastly,whilewe understand thatCouncilcan always suggest charter
amendments, on years where thereisa CharterCommission, we strongly
feelthatany proposed amendments should run though the CharterCom
mission. This isa more transparent system where broader community vet
tingcan occur by the publicand commission and items are reviewed over
a longer period of time,which isimportant given the significanceof charter
amendments and the factthatthey have to be placed on the ballotwith
community education.
For these reasons we respectfullyrequest thatthisresolutionbe filed.Ma-
halo forthe opportunityto providetestimony.
Bill 92/CR 22-59 - Residency Requirement
We feelitisimportant forour boards and commissions to be made up of
Maui County residentsand thinkthisbillto establisha residencyrequire
ments isa good idea.Therefore,we support thisbill.
Bill 21/CR 22-47 - Lighting Ordinance
While we understand and agree with the intentto protectnativeseabirds,
we cannot support thisbillas itiscurrentlywrittenas itisill-informedand
could have vast impacts and repercussions,as noted by Corporation
Counsel and the Public Works Commission. We agree with the various
pointsmade by the PublicWorks Commission and also understand that
Corporation Counsel has drafteda billthatwould achieve the goal without
causing hardships to businesses and residents.
For these reasons, we ask thatthisbillbe filedand the Corporation Coun
sel draft be discussed.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.comMauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Waiiuku, Hawaii 96793
MAUI4 f CHAMBEROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
Bill 82/CR 22-52 - M-2 Heavy Industrial Zoning Housing
When itcomes to affordablehousing and rentals,we need to look at new
solutionsforaffordabilityand we learned at both of our housing summits
(June 2017 & October 2019) that itistremendously helpfulto have infill
projectsas infrastructurealready existsinthese areas. With existingin
frastructure,the cost to develop affordable housing and rentalsisgreatly
reduced and therefore, allows the units to be rented at a much lower level.
While we acknowledge thatthere may be added noise or lightsdue to the
location,there are residentswho currentlyhave no rentalchoices or pro
spects. This could create safe housing options.We must remember that
livingIn one of these areas isa choice and ifsomeone rents an apartment
and decides the lightingor noise istoo much, they then have the choice to
move, but at leastthey have a roofover theirheads for a time. These lo
cations may actuallybe desirableas they are close to many jobs,goods,
and services.We are hearing from businesses whose employees make
good money, but are having to sleep intheircars because of the lack of
affordablerentals,which isalso clearlyknown by the Council given that
Bill108 isbeing discussed.
Additionally,we don’t have the same types of industrialareas likethey do
on the mainland. Since these parcels are inheavy industrialareas, thisbill
puts protectionsin place likeenvironmental testing,bufferzones, and
landscaping. We are also not lookingat areas where affordablehomes
are builtwith the intentionof homeownership, but apartments thatare
rented.Because of that,people willnot feelpressured to stay ifthey do
not likethe area. Itisalso important to recognize that ifapartments are
builtinthese areas, developers willintentionallydesign the space to en
courage rentalsand mitigatelightand noise,as they do not want the
buildingsto sitempty.
808-244>0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
r ? M AUICHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BU^MESS
Lastly,thisbillhas the blessingof the Maui and Lanai Planning Commis
sions and with thatapproval and our pointsabove, we are highlyconfused
why the Council isrecommending filingof thisbilland approaching iton a
case by case approval basis.We need solutionsnow and individualap
provals take too much time.
This Isa much-needed toolinthe toolbox to help mitigateour housing cri
sisand should be passed, not filed.We trulyhope people are paying at
tentionto hearings and actionsthathelp move affordablehousing and
rentals forward and actions that move us backwards, likethis one.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto providetestimony on these bills.
Sincerely,
Pamela Tumpap
President
To advance and promote a healthyeconomic environment
for business, advocating fora responsive government and
qualityeducation,whilepreservingMaui’s unique community
characteristics.
808-244-0081legislation@MauiChamber.com MauiChamber.com62 North Market Street, Suite 302, Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
County Clerk
mmmmahalo2000@aol.com
Wednesday, June 29,2022 7:08 PM
County Clerk
KCA testimonyfor7/1/22on Item22-57forResOj^r^4j\|Cg!Qp Tf-jp
psiu.committeeTesimony1-8-2020(PSLU-34){PSl^-(j^jtJl|Uj4g|{^.p^
From:
Sent im JIW 30 AH 7: 56
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
You don’toftengetemailfrom mmmmahalo2000@aol.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant . ●
Aloha Chair Lee and Council.
Mike Moran forthe KihelCommunity Assoc (KCA) insupportof 22-57
As we have testifiedpreviouslywe have longsupported a planningcommission forour district,so we
are seeking supporttoget thischarteron the 2022 ballot.Inpriormeetings,therewas some
discussionsabout districtadvisorycommittees tothe MPC. We offerthisattacheddoc which was
testimonytothe PSLU committee over two years ago on such proposed advisorycommitteeswhich
addresses districtplanningcommissions as preferable.John Blummer- Buellexplainswhilehe
supported the committees being proposed atthattime,he addresses the shortcomings ofthem & the
preferencefordistrictplanningcommissions. He opinionisbased on hisexperiencesas a threeterm
Hana Advisory Committee as you see inthisdoc.
At thissame time John contacted me explaininghisposition& suggested our org pursue the
commission inplaceofthe committee. Irepliedthatwhilewe agreed withhim,we were goingforthe
committee as a step toward a futurecommission.
Now 2 1/2years laterwe finallyhave been advised the firstmeeting ofthe SMAC isbeing scheduled
forthismonth, while we have thismatter fora area planningcommission potentiallyon thisyears
ballot.So our expectationthisisthe process we hoped to achieve.We can have thisadvisory
committee inplace inS Maui now as we prepare to have our own planningcommission soon.
While itisnotthe same we have experienced our community organization'sinputto MPC on matters
inour districtrejectedby the MPC not based on laws nor regulations,butbecause oflackof
understandingofproposed mattersand theirlocationinSouth Maui by thiscommission.
Inconclusionwe ask your supporttoget hismatteron the ballotso the voterscan decide
Mahalo
Mike Moran
1
Count^jeHc
EricMIyasato<eric@hawaiianlights.com>
Tuesday,June28,2022 5:23PM
County Clerk
FullCouncilmeeting - File# CC 22-154 ClimateAction,Resilienceand EnvironmentBill
21,CD1 (2022)
chapter14- llghting.pdf;Urmston_et_al._2022_PONE.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject
Attachments:
Ott 73c*n
m
oHm
oO”●71
go
Iwould liketo submit the attachedforFriday'smeeting July1^,inregards1§
You don'toftenget emailfrom eric@hawaiianlights.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Dear County Clerk,
NJ
■O m
m
o
Document 1 (Umston_et_al_2022_PONE.pdf)
● Hawaii PacificUniversity& US Fishand WildlifeStudy
o 8 year study with 4 years of High pressuresodium lamp and 4 years offull
cutoffLED in3000K and 4000K along the coast from Waimanalo to Hawaii Kai.
o Page 14,Highlighted- "There isno evidence suggestingthat the shielded LED
streetlightsimpacted the number of birdsaffectedby falloutoverall."
Document 2-Chapter 14 of the BigIslandlightingordinance.
● Section14-52GeneralRequirements(a)(b)(c)(d)(e)(f)referto Table 14-A
● Table 14-A covers Class1,class2 and Class3 classifications.
● Section 14.53 (d)
shieldedor have lumen output of lessthan eightthousand one hundred lumens for
each acre of propertythatisintended to be illuminatedshallbe exempt from the
requirements of thisarticle.
● Section14.53 (e )
material,and illuminatedtotallyfrom withingand colored with an opaque
background usingtranslucentlettersor symbols,shallbe exempt from the
requirement of thisarticle,except that the hours of operation shallbe the same as
those forthe Class1 outdoor lighting.
● Section14.51 Definitions(2)Class1 lightingmeans alloutdoor lightingused for,but
not limitedto,outdoor salesand eatingareas,assembly or repairareas,advertisting
or businesssigns,recreationalfacilities,and other similarapplicationsinwhich color
renditionisimportant,
o Table 14-A-class 1
■ Fullyshielded(othersabove 4,050 lumens / others below 4,050 lumens)
OFF from 11:00pm to sunrise.
● Note: "This Isstandard LED because color rendition isimportant."
PrivateResidentialincandescentlightfixtureswhich are fully
Outdoor Advertisingsigns,ifconstructed of translucent
1
● Section 14-53 Exemptions
o (a)EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES. ALL OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES PLANNED AND
APPROVED BY THE COUNTY OR EXISTING AND LEGALLY INSTALLED PRIOR TO
SEPTEMBER 1,1988, ARE EXEMPT FROM THE INSTALLATION AND SHIELDING
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS ARTICLE, EXCEPT THAT WHEN EXISTING OUTDOOR
LIGHT FIXTURES BECOME INOPERABLE, THE OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES WHICH
REPLACE THEM SHALL COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENT OF THIS ARTICLE.
The currentMaui Bill21 CDl does not allowexemptions as the BigIslandlightingordinance
does. Also,the BigIslandordinanceallowsthe existingfixturesto remain and only changed
when itbecomes inoperable,whereas the Maui BILL21 CDl willrequirealloutdoor lightsto
be changed 3 yearsafterpassage. The Maui Billwillcause financialhardship to businessesand
residencesof Maui County to comply.
EricMiyasato
808-226-5973
2
General Welfare §14-45
(A) All materialswhich enterintoor are produced as partof the nuclearfuelcycle,including
milled uranium ore,fissilematerial,and allfissionby-producte.
(B) Any quantityof radioactivematerialspecifiedas a “large quantity”by the Nuclear
RegulatoryCommission in 10 CFR, part71.
(C) Any quantityof radioactivewaste,includingnonradloactivematerialcontaminatedwith
radioactivematerial,which has been produced as partof thenuclearfuelcycle.
(6) Forthepurposesofthisarticle,theterm“radioactivematerialor substance”shallnot include:
(A) Radiationsourcesor materialsemployed intherapeuticradiology,inbiomedicalresearch,or
In educationalendeavors,or medical devicesdesignedfor individualapplication(as for
example cardiacpacemakers) or commercial devices,processes,or facilities,as approved by
theappropriateregulatoryand licensingagencies.
(1981,Ord.No. 665, sec.1.)
Section 14-46. Transportation of radioactivematerial,unlawful.
Itshallbe unlawfulforany persontotransportradioactivematerialwithinor throughtheCounty.
(1981,Ord.No. 665, sec.1.)
Section 14-47. Storage of radioactivematerial,unlawful.
Itshallbe unlawfulforany persontostoreradioactivematerialwithin the County.
(1981,Ord.No. 665,sec.1.)
Section 14-48. Nuclear energy facilities,prohibited.
Itshallbe unlawfulforany personto locateor builda nuclearenergy facilitywhich utilizesnuclear
materialfortheproductionof energywithintheCounty.
(1981,Ord.No. 665,sec.1.)
Section14-49. Penalty.
Any personviolatingany provisionof thisarticleshallbe guiltyof a misdemeanor and shallbe finednot
more than$1,000or imprisonedfornotmore thanone year,or both,foreach violation.
(1981,Ord.No. 665,sec.1.)
Article9.Outdoor Lighting.
Section 14-50. Applicabilityand scope of article,
(a) ThisarticleshallapplytotheinstallationofalloutdoorlightingfixtureswithintheCounty,
(b) The provisionsofthisarticle,includingprovisionsfortheimpositionupon any personof thepenaltiesby
fineforany violationof thisarticle,shallnot be construedto exclude the operationof applicableState
statutesor other County ordinances.In the case of conflictwith otherCounty ordinances,the stricter
ordinanceshallapply.
(1988,Ord.No. 88-122,sec.3.)
Section 14-51. Definitions,
(a) As used inthisarticle,unlessthecontextclearlyindicatesotherwise:
“Outdoor lightingfixture”means any outdoor artificiallightingdevice,fixture,lamp, or other
similardevice,permanently installedor portable,which is intendedto provide illuminationfor
eithervisibilityor decorativeeffects.Such device shallinclude,but not be limitedto,search,spot,
and floodlightingused for:
(A) Buildingsand structures;
(B) Recreationalfacilities;
(I)
14-25
§14-51 Hawai‘i County Code
(C) Parkinglots;
(D) Landscape lighting;
(E) Businessand advertisingsigns;
(F) Roadways;
(G) Walkways.
"ClassI lighting”means alloutdoor lightingused for,but not limitedto,outdoor salesand eating
areas,assembly or repairareas,advertisingor businesssigns,recreationalfacilities,and other
similarapplicationsinwhich colorrenditionisimportant.
(3) “Class II lighting”means all outdoor lightingused for,but not limitedto, illuminationfor
walkways, roadways,equipmentyards,parkinglots,outdoorsecurity,and othersimilarapplications
inwhich generalilluminationofthegroundsistheprimaryconcern.
(4) “ClassIIIlighting”means any outdoorlightingused for decorativeeffects.Itincludes,but is not
limitedto,waterfalland pond lightingand architecturalhighlightingforbuildingsand landscapes.
(5) “Buildingofficial”means thedirectorof publicworks or thedirector’sdesignatedrepresentative.
(6) “Individual”means any privateindividual,governmental entity,tenant, lessee,owner, or any
commercial entityincluding,but not limitedto, companies,partnerships,joint ventures,or
corporations.
(7) “Fullyshielded”means theoutdoorlightingfixtureisconstructedso thatallof the lightemittedby
thefixtureisprojectedbelow thehorizontalplaneof thelowestpointofthefixture.
(8) “Partiallyshielded”means thattheoutdoorlightingfixtureisconstructedso thatat leastninety
percentof thelightemittedby thefixtureisprojectedbelow thehorizontalplaneofthelowestpoint
of the fixture.
(9) “Blue lightcontent”means the ratioof the amount of energy emittedby the outdoor lightfixture
between400 and 500 nm dividedby theamount of energybetween 400 and 700 nm.
(10) “Trafficcolorcompliant”means the 1931 CIE x y colorcoordinatesof the outdoorlightfixtureis
outsideofany ofthetrafficsignalcolorboxesasdefinedby ITE ST-052 500/AGS-PM/l 105.
(1988,Ord.No. 88-122,sec.3;Am. 2001,Ord. No. 01-108,sec.l;Am. 201I,Ord.No. IMS.sec. 1.)
Section 14-52.
(a) Standardfixture.Allclasstypesof outdoorlightfixturesshallfollowtherequirementssetforthinTable
14-A.
(b) Shielding.Alloutdoorlightsshallbe shieldedpursuanttotherequirementssetforthinTable 14-A.
(c) Hours of operation.All outdoorlightfixturesshallbe subjectto thehoursof operationas requiredby
Table 14-A.
(d) Mercury vaporlightsprohibited.Mercuiy vaporlamps shallnot be used forany new outdoor lighting
installationsor forthe replacementof any existinginstallation.All existingmercury vapor outdoor
lightingfixturesshallbe removed by August 17,1998.
(e) Blue lightcontent. The blue lightcontentof the outdoor lightfixtureshall be pursuant to the
requirementssetforthinTable 14-A.
(f) Trafficcolorcompliant.The colorof theoutdoorlightfixtureshallbe pursuantto therequirementsset
forth in Table 14-A.
(1988,Ord. No. 88-122,sec.3;Am. 2011, Ord. No. 11-18,sec.2.)
Section14-53. Exemptions,
(a) Existinglightfixtures.All outdoorlightfixturesplanned and approved by the County or existingand
legallyinstalledpriorto September 1, 1988,areexempt from the installationand shieldingrequirements
of thisarticle,exceptthatwhen existingoutdoorlightfixturesbecome inoperable,the outdoor light
fixtureswhich replacethem shallcomply with therequirementsof thisarticle,
(b) Fossilfuellight.Alloutdoorlightfixturesproducinglightdirectlyby thecombustion of fossilfuels,such
as keroseneand gasoline,shallbe exempt from therequirementsof thisarticle,
(c) Holiday decorativelighting.Low wattagefixturesused forholidaydecorationsshallbe exempt from the
requirementsof thisarticle.
(2)
General requirements.
SUPP. 12 (7-2011) 14-26
General Welfare § 14-53
(d) Residential incandescent illumination. Private residential incandescentlightfixtureswhich are fully
shieldedor have a lumen outputof lessthaneightthousandone hundred lumens foreach acreof property
thatisintendedto be illuminatedshallbe exempt from therequirementsofthisarticle.
Business signs.Outdoor advertisingsigns,ifconstructedof translucentmaterial,and illuminatedtotally
from withinand coloredwith an opaque background usingtranslucentlettersor symbols, shallbe exempt
from the requirementsof thisarticle,exceptthatthe hours of operationshallbe the same as thosefor
Class 1outdoor lighting.
Searchlights.Searchlightsused foradvertisingpurposesshallbe exempt from the requirementsof this
article,exceptthattheoperationofsuch lightsislimitedtothehoursof 6:00p.m.to 10:00p.m.
Emergency lighting.Emergency lightingrequiredforpublicsafetyisexempt from the requirementsof
this article.
(1988,Ord.No. 88-122,sec.3.)
(e)
(f)
(g)
Section 14-54. Submission of plans.
Alloutdoorlightingfixturesshallbe installedinconformance withtheprovisionsof thisarticleand those
of the electricalcode of the County as applicableand subjectto the appropriatepermitand inspection
requirementsthereof.The applicantforany permitrequiredby theCounty forwork involvingnonexempt
outdoorlightfixturesshallsubmitto the buildingofficialproofthattheproposedwork willcomply with
thearticlerequirements.The submissionshallcontain,but not be limitedto,thefollowing:
(1) The locationof thesitewhere theoutdoorlightfixtureswillbe installed;
(2) Plansindicatingthetype(s)of outdoorlightfixturestobe used and theirlocationon thepremises;
(3) A descriptionof theoutdoorlightfixturesincluding,but not limitedto,manufacturer’scatalogcuts
and drawings.
The plansand descriptionsrequiredby subsection(a)sufficientlycompletetoenablethebuildingofficial
to readilydeterminewhether compliance with the requirementsof thisarticlewillbe secured.Ifsuch
plansand descriptionscannotenablethisreadydetermination,by reasonof thenatureor configurationof
the devicesor fixturesproposed,the applicantshallbe requiredto submit furtherproofof compliance.
Furthermore,any design,material,or method of installationnotspecificallyforbiddenby thisarticlemay
be used,providedany such alternatehas firstbeen approved by thebuildingofficial.The buildingofficial
may approveany such proposedalternateprovided:
(1) Itisatleastapproximatelyequivalenttotheapplicablespecificrequirementsof thisarticle;and
(2) Itisotherwisesatisfactoryand complieswiththe intentof thisarticle.
(1988,Ord. No. 88-122,sec.3.)
(a)
(b)
Section 14-55. Tables.
TABLE 14-A
Lamp Type ShieldingRequirement Operation Restrictions
Class 1
Low pressuresodium
Low pressuresodium
Fullyshielded
Partiallyshielded
None
Existingfixturesonly.New
installations as of
October 2010 prohibited
Off from 11:00p.m. to sunrise*
Off from 11:00p.m. to sunrise*
Off at 11:00p.m. to sunrise*
Fullyshielded
Fullyshielded
Fullyshielded
Othersabove 4,050 lumens
Others below 4,050 lumens
LED fixtures with less than 2%
blue lightcontent
SUPP. 12 (7-2011)14-27
Hawai‘1 County Code§ 14-55
Class II
Low pressuresodium
90 watts or less Existingfixturesonly.
New installationsas of
October 2010 prohibited
Existingfixturesonly.
New installationsas of
October 2010 prohibited
None
Partiallyshieldedgreatertlian90 watts
Fullyshielded
Fullyshielded
Low pressuresodium
LED fixtures with less than 2%
bluelightcontentand
trafficcolorcompliant
Others above 4,050 lumens
Others below 4,050 lumens
None
None
Prohibited
Prohibited
Class 111
Low pressuresodium
Others above 4,050 lumens
Others below 4,050 lumens
Neon
Fullyshielded None
Prohibited
Off from 11:00 p,m. to sunrise*
Off from 11:00p.m. to sunrise*
Fullyshielded
None
*These lightsmay remainon after11:00p.m.ifbona fidebusinessor recreationalactivitiesaretakingplace.
(1988, Ord. No. 88-122, sec.3; Am. 2011, Ord. No. 11-18,sec.3; Am. 2013, Ord. No. 13-60,sec.2.)
Section14-55.1.Penalty.
Any person violatingany provisionof thisarticleshall,upon conviction,be punished by a finenot to
exceed $500. Such personshallbe deemed guiltyofa separateoffenseforeach and every day any violationof
thisarticleis committed. Furthermore,payment of such a fineshallnot relievethe individualfrom the
responsibilityof correctingtheviolativecondition,nor shallitprecludetheCounty from institutingany action
for itsremoval.
(1988,Ord.No. 88-122,sec.3.)
Article10. Exceptional Trees.
Section 14-56. Intent.
In accordance with section 58-2, Hawai‘i Revised Statutes,to safeguard exceptionalfreesfrom
destructiondue to landdevelopment,theCounty desirestoenactprotectiveregulationstopreserveexceptional
treeswithintheCounty.
(1984,Ord. No. 84-22,sec.1.)
Section 14-57. Definitions.
For purposes of thisarticle,“exceptionalfrees”means a freeor grove of freeswith historicor cultural
value,or which by reason of itsage, rarity,location,size,aestheticquality,or endemic statushas been
designatedby thecouncilas worthy of preservation.The term exceptionaltreesdoes not apply to treesplanted
forcommercial forestryoperations.Exceptionaltreesmay be designatedgenerallyby biotaxyor individually
by locationor class.
(1984,Ord. No. 84-22,sec.1.)
Section 14-58. Arborist advisory committee.
There shallbe an arboristadvisorycommittee consistingof sixmembers who shallbe appointedby the
mayor. The committee shallincludethe following:the planning director,or the director’sdesignee;one
SUPP. 16 (7-2013) 14-28
PLOS ONE
RESEARCH ARTICLE
Quantifyingwedge-tailedshearwater
{Ardennapacifica)falloutafterchanges in
highway lightingon Southeast 0‘ahu, Hawaii
K.DavidHyrenbach . KeithSwindle^
1 Hawaii PacificUniversity,WairnSnalo,HI,UnitedStatesofAmerica,2 Oikonos Ecosystem Knowledge.
Kailua,HI.United States of America, 3 U.S. Pish and WildlifeService(USFWS), U.S. Embassy, Nairobi,
Kenya
1,2a»Jennifer Urmston
□ Currentaddress;MigratoryBirdPermitOffice,U.S.Fishand WildlifeService(USFWS), Portland,OR,
United States of America
Check for
updates
Abstract
Attractionto artificiallightat night(ALAN) poses a threattomany fledglingseabirdsleaving
theirnests forthe firsttime.In Hawaii, fledglingwedge-tailed shearwaters disorientedby
lightsmay become grounded due toexhaustionorcollision,exposingthem toadditional
threatsfrom road trafficand predation.While the timingand magnitude ofshearwaterfallout
variesfromyeartoyear,littleisknown about how changing lightingand environmentalcon
ditionsinfluencetheriskofgroundingforthisspecies.We analyzed8 years(2012-2019)of
observationsofroad-killedsheanwatersalongtheKalaniana'oleHighway on O'ahu toquan
tifythetimingand magnitude offalloutduringthefledgingseason (November-December).
Our goalwas tocompare falloutbefore(2012-15)and after(2016-19)a transitioninhigh
way lightingfrom unshieldedhigh-pressuresodium (HPS) tofull-cutofflight-emittingdiode
(LED) streetlights.To detecttheshearwaterresponsetothelightingregime,we also
accounted forthree potentialenvironmental driversofinterannualvariabilityinfallout;moon
illumination,wind speed, and wind direction.The effectsofthese environmentaldriversvar
iedacrossyears,withmoon illumination,wind speed and wind directionsignificantlyaffect
ingfalloutinatleastone year.Altogether,theinteractionbetween moon illuminationand
wind speed was themost importantpredictor,suggestingthatfalloutincreasesduringnights
with low moon and strong winds. The lackof an increase infalloutafterthe change from
HPS toshielded3000K -4000K LED streetlightssuggests the new streetlightsdidnot
worsen the lightpollutionimpacts on wedge-tailedshearwaters on Southeast O'ahu. How
ever,due topotentialspecies-specificdisparitiesinthebehaviorand lightattractionof
petrels,similarstudiesare needed before energy saving LED lightsareimplemented
throughoutthe Hawaiianarchipelago.
fiOPENACCESS
citation:UrmstonJ,HyrenbachKD,SwindleK
(2022)Quantifyingwedge-tailedshearwater
(Ardennapacifica)falloutafterchangesinhighway
lightingon SoutheastO'ahu,Hav/ai'i.PLoS ONE
17(3);e0265832.httos7/doi.orQ/10.1371/iournal.
Done.0265832
Editor;WorHugo RodriguesPaiva,MARE-
Marine and EnvironmentalSciencesCentre.
PORTUGAL
Received:September26.2021
Accepted:March 8,2022
Published:March 24.2022
PeerReviewHistory:PLOS recognizesthe
benefitsoftransparencyinthepeerreview
process;therefore,m enablethepublicationof
allofthecontentofpeerreviewand author
responsesalongsidefinal,publishedarticles.The
editorialhistoryofthisarticleisavailablehere:
hltDS./VdoiotQ/1Q 13<'1/iournal.oono0265832
Copyright:Thisisan open accessarticle,freeofall
copyright,and may be freelyreproduced,
distributed,transmitted,modified,builtupon,or
otherwiseusedbyanyoneforanylawfulpurpose.
The work ismade availableunder the CreativR
Commons CCO publicdomaindedication.
DataAvailabilityStatement:Allrelevantdataare
withinthemanuscriptand itsSuDOortino
Inlormatlon tiles.
Introduction
Lightpollutionisa concernforburrow-nestingseabirdsglobally,withdocumented impacts
on over50 speciesofshearwaters,petrels,and puffins[i).Whilecoastallightpollutioncan
1/17PLOS ONE IhttDs://dQi.oro/10.1371/iournal.Pone.Q265832March 24,2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,Hawai'i
Funding:Thisworkv/assupportedby Experiment,
com (Blindedbythelight:reducingshearv/ater
deathsalonga coastalhighwayin0 'ahu,Hav/ai'i)
andTheEppleyFoundationforResearch(Blinded
by IheLight:ShearwaterDeathsAlonga Coastal
HighwayInO'ahu).The fundershadno roleIn
studydesign,datacollectionandanalysis,decision
topublish,orpreparationofthemanuscript.
Competing interests:The authorshavedeclared
thatno competinginterestsexist.
disruptadultseabirdsprovisioningtheirchickson colonies[2-4],tledglingsconsistently
accountforthemajority(68% -99%) ofthegroundedspecimens(.1).Fledglingseabird“fall
out”occurswhen chicksleavingtheirnestsaredisorientedby onshorelightingand become
strandedon landinsteadofflyingout tosea[i].The magnitudeoffalloutislikelyinfluenced
by thenumber ofchick.sfledging,theprevailingenvironmentaland celestialconditions[4,5),
and thefeaturesofanthropogeniclights,which varyasa functionoflightfixturedesignand
bulbtype[6,Zl-To gaugetheeffectivenessoflightpollutionmitigationmeasures,wildlife
managersneedtounderstandtheinfluenceofthesebiologicaland environmentaldriverson
thetimingand magnitudeoffallout.
A conceptualmodel toexplainfalloutinvolvesfledgingseabirdsbeingdrawn towardwell-
litcoastalareas,especiallyintheabsenceofmoonlight[4,5,8-U.]and when strongwindsare
directedtoward shore (U),ii).Birdsareaffectedby brightlightsourcesfromvesselsatseaand
urbanizedareason shore,includingstreetlightsand sportsfields(1,6,12-il).Moreover,colli-
sion.swithpowerlinesand otherstructurecan leadtoinjuryand grounding(JJ,15|.Whileour
understandingoftheenvironmentaldriversoffalloutisgrowing,theinfluenceofspecific
designfeaturesofanthropogeniclightsourcesremainsunderstudied.Inparticular,lamp color
and directionalityaretwo key streetlightfeaturesthatcanaffectfallout[7,I^).Spurredby
effortstoimproveenergeticefficiency,many citiesarereplacingyellowhigh-pressuresodium
(HPS) lightbulbscommonly usedinstreetlightswithwhitelight-emittingdiode(LED) bulbs
[12-i?).AlthoughLED bulbsdecreaseelectricityconsumptionand maintenancecosts,these
benefitscouldbe costlytowildlife,assheanvatersmay be more sensitivetoLED lights(Zj-A
studyon thevisualperceptionofWedge-tailedShearwaters{Ardeiuuxpiici/jcn-previouslyPuf-
ifnuspacijx'ciis)showed thattheyexperiencemaximum lightabsorptionofthewavelengths
emittedby whiteLED lights(406-566nm) and havelowerabsorptionofthewavelengthsemit
tedby UPS lights(560-620nm) [20].Moreover,a field-basedexperimentinAustraliashowed
thatShort-tailedShearwaters{Ardown toniirostris)show increasedattractiontoI.EDlights
overHPS lights,althoughthedifferencewas notstatisticallysignificant(7).
Mitigationmeasuresoftentargetlightdirectionality,whereby streetlightsareshielded
throughtheuseofa "full-cutofrdesign,which inhibitslightemissionabovethehorizontal
planeofthefixture.Thisapproach,when appliedtoHPS lights,reducedNewell’sShearwater
{Pu/fmusnewelU)fallouton Kauai (Hawai‘i)[16].AlthoughmitigationIsbeingaddressed
throughshielding,thecommon useofoptimizedLEDs withbroadspectraand Correlated
ColorTemperature(CCT) greaterthanthemaximum recommended valueforwildlife(2200
K) may be a causetorconcern(17).While modern LED lightspossesstheflexibilitytogiveoff
a rangeoflowtohighC'.TT,short-wavciengthlightwithhighCCT isa common choicebecause
ofitsefficiency(J9.1.The effectivenessoflightshieldingcoupledwiththeuseofbroadspec
trum,highCCT LEDs isunknown.
On theislandofO'ahu (Hawai'i),Wedge-tailedShearwaters(hereafterreferredtoas
WTSH) experiencefalloutduringtheannualfledgingseason(November-December)[2.L22).
A three-yearstudyintheearly1990s,revealedthathundredsofchicksbecome grounded
ever)'autumn, withthenumber varyingwidelyfrom yeartoyear[221.Startingin2002,U.S.
Fishand WildlifeServiceinitiateda program ofopportunisticroad surveysofthesoutheast
sectionofO'ahuduringthefledgingseason,whichdocumented a fallouthotspotinthetown
of Waimanalo, within 5 km from two WTSH colonies on offshore islets(21).
While thereisevidenceofinterannualvariabilityinWTSH fallout,littleisknown aboutthe
influenceofenvironmental(weatherand oceanographicconditions)and biological(breeding
populationsizeand reproductivesuccess)drivers.To date,onlyone studyhasinvestigatedthe
environmentaldriversofWTSH fallout,by comparing a “wreck”yearofunusuallyhighfallout
(1994),when WTSH groundingsincreasedten-foldfrom thetwo “normal”yearsprior|22).
2/17PLOS ONE IhllDs://doi.orQ/10.t371/ioumal.Done.02G5a32March 24. 2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton O'ahu,Hawai'i
Thisstudysuggestedthatanomaloussoutherlywindslikelycarriedfledglingsinlandrather
thanouttoseaand scatteredthem throughoutthewindwardcoastofO'ahu.Whilethesouth
erlywindshelpexplainwhy many birdswerefoundinland,itisuncleartowhat extentlow
oceanproductivityduringthebreedingseasonand unusualweatherconditionsduringthe
Hedgingperiodcausedthehighfalloutobservedthatyear.
Over a decade later,Friswoldetal.(2020)documented an increasingtrendinannualfallout
numbers between2003and 2010,and a two-yearcycleofalternatingyearsofhighand lowfall
out.Subsequently,an unusuallylargefallouteventin2011was documented duringa La Nina
yearwithhighoceanproductivity[23)-Theseresultsaresuggestiveofthepotentialinfluence
ofbreedingpopulationsizeand reproductivesuccesson fallout.
In 2012,we beganconductingsystematicroadsurveysalonga 17.3-kmsectionoftheKala-
niana'oleHighway todocument WTSH fallout.In2016,theHawai'iDepartmentofTranspor
tationchangedthestreetlightson O'ahu’smajorroadsfrom unshielded2200 K HPS lightsto
shielded3000-4000 K LED lights,where Kelvin(K)isa unitofmeasurement forCCT. Lower
CCT indicatesa warm yellow-orangeappearancewhereashigherCCT indicatescoolbluelight
11S|.The shiftinlightshalfwaythroughourstudyprovideda uniqueopportunitytocompare
WTSH falloutunderdifTerentstreetlightingconditions.To thisend,we continuedconducting
standardizedsur\'eysfollowingtheestablishedprotocolthrough2019 and analyzedan 8-year
timeserieswithfouryearsbefore(2012-15)and fouryearsafter(2016-19)thechange inlight
ing.ThisisthefirststudytocomparechangesinseabirdgroundingsinresponsetoHPS versus
LED streetlights,by repeatedlysurveyinga fallouthotspotduringtheHedgingseason.
The goalofthisstudyistoquantifythemagnitudeofWTSH falloutunder two contrasting
lightingregimes,toinformfuturecoastaldevelopmentand management oflightpollution.
AlthoughshieldingoftheLED streetlightsmay reduceinitialWTSH attraction,we predicted
thatdisorientationcausedby highintensity/shorterwavelengthlightswould outweightheben
efitsofshielding.Thus,we expectedan increaseinfalloutaftertheinstallationofLED street
lights(2016-2019).To detectthefalloutresponsetothelightingregime,we alsoaccountedfor
threepotentialenvironmentaldrivers:moon illumination,wind speed,and wind direction.
BecauseWTSH relyon wind totakeflightand may becomedisorientedintheabsenceof
moonlight,we predictedhigherfalloutduringwindynightsoflow moon illumination.In par
ticular.due tothelocationofourstudyarea,southwestfrom hvo breedingcolonies,we antici
patedthatstrongnortheasterlywindswould drivethefledgingbirdstowardsshore.
Methods
Study area
Thisstudyfocuseson thesoutheastsectionofO'ahu,wherea two-lanecoastalhighwayruns
througha ruraland developedlandscape(£ig_i).The surveyroutewas illuminatedwithHPS
streetlightsuntil2016,when theHawai'iDepartmentofTransportationtransitionedtoLED
streetlights.The CCT oftheLED streetlightsis3000K on sectionsofthehighwaydirectlyadja
centtotheocean,whereasinlandlightsare4000 K.
The WTSH breedingcoloniesofManana Islandand KaohikaipuIsland,where approxi
mately25,000and 800chickswere countedin2019,arelocated1.3and 0.7km offshoreofour
studyarea,respectively(25).ThreeadditionalWTSH colonieson offshoreislets(Mokulua
Nui.Mokulua Iki,and Popoi'a)lieapproximately6 km northofthestudyarea(Fjgjj,with
2019 chick count estimatesof 3,500,5,000,and 900, respectively[25].
Weatherpatternson windward O'ahuaredominatedby thenortheasttradewinds,which
typicallypersistfor1 to2 weeks,interspersedwithno-windperiodsorsoutherlystorms.Peak
wind speedsoccurintheafternoon,withlowerwind speedsatnight(26).
PLOS ONE Ihllpsj//doi.pr(i/ip.1371/ioiJfnal.oone.0265832March 24,2022 3/17
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwatertallouton O'ahu,Hawaii
.P'
● MOK
FSP
Pig 1.Map ofthestudyareainsoutheastO'ahu.Bluetineshows thesurveyroute,and crossesindicatethestartandend
points.BlackdotsindicateVV'fSHbreedingcolonics.(PIs Popoi'aIsland,MOK = Mokulua Islands,Ml = Manana Island,
KI = KSohikaipuIsland,FSP = Freeman SeabirdPreserve).Starmarks thelocationoftheSeal.ifcParkseabirdrehabilitation
center.Insetmaps sliowtheislandofO'ahu,and themain HawaiianIslands.Map featuresarcoverlaidon an ArcGIS Pro
SoftwareVersion2.5baselayer[2dj.
Intake records
Members ofthepublicdelivergrounded WTSH toSeaLifePark(SLP),a marine lifecenter
locatedalongour surveyrouteinWaimanalo, forrescueand rehabilitation.SLP intakerec
ords,involvingthedailynumber ofrescuedWTSH chicks,havebeenusedtodocument the
island-widetemporalvariabilityinWTSH falloutduringthefledgingseasonand from yearto
year[2Jj2Z]-To providea broadercontextforourlocalizedsurveysofa known WTSH fallout
hotspot,we compared thetimingand themagnitudeofannualfalloutdocumented intheSLP
intakerecordsand our surveys.
Road surveys
We useda timeseriesofstandardizedroadsurveysalonga 17.3-kmstretchoftheKalania-
na'oleHighway,startingattheOlomana GolfClub,runningthroughWaimanalo,and ending
attheKoko Marina Center(FigIL While thissurveyrouteisa subsetoftheareasurveyedby
4/17PLOS ONE IhttDs://doLorn/10.1371/ioiJfnal.oone.Q265832March 24,2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu, Hawaii
USFVVS from 2002-2010,ilencompasseisthemain WTSH fallouthotspotinWaimanalo [2J_].
We conductedmorning surveysby car,every3 days,throughouttheWTSH fledgingseason
(November 6 -December 21).We begansurveysatsunrise(6:15-7:15AM) and drovethe
routeonce ineachdirection,atspeedsbetween25-35 mph, whilevisuallysearchingfordead
birdsineachlaneand alongtheshoulder.Sincethesesurveyswere conductedinthemorning,
likelya full12hoursafterfledginglime,almostallthebirdswe observedweredeceased.In8
yearsofsurveys,we observed2 livebirds,whichwerebroughttoSLP forrehabilitationand
notcountedinouranalysis.Alldead birdssightedwhiledrivingwere includedinthesurveys,
eveniftheywerefoundon theshoulder,themedian,or offtheroad.
Upon encounteringa carcass,we recordeditspositionon theroad,location(latitudeand
longitudecoordinatesfrom a hand-heldGarmin c-trexGPS unit),neareststreetaddress,and
nearestutilitypoleusingtheiruniqueidtags.We alsolookphotosofeachWTSH we encoun
tered,showingdiagnosticidentificationfeatures(headand feet).
Environmental variables
We relatedWTSH fallouttotwo publicly-availableenvironmentaldatasets:(i)wind speed
(knots)and wind direction(degrees)recordedon Moku Lo‘e(Kaneohe Bay)and providedby
PacIOOS (27|,and (ii)thelunarcycle,quantifiedusingthepercentofthelunardiskthatwas
illuminatedeachnight,from theU.S.NavalObservatory12&).
BecauseWTSH fledgeduringthenight,we averagedthehourlywind dataeverynight
(18:00-6:00localtime).To match oursurveystotheprecedingenvironmentalconditions,we
relatedthenumber ofgroundedWTSH documented duringa givenroadsurveytotheaverage
wind speed(knots),wind direction(degrees),and lunardiskillumination(%) from thethree
nightsprior.
Data analysis
We analyzedfalloutacrossand withinyearsusinggeneralizedlinearmodels(GLM) builtwith
R version3.5.1and thestatsand MASS packages[22).We developedand fittednineseparate
models:a fullmodel (involvingallstudyyears)quantifiedinterannualvariability,and eight
yearlymodelsvisualizedtheinterannualdifferencesdocumented by thefullmodel.
We ranallmodelsusingbothPoissonand negativebinomialdistributions.Becausethe
Poissonassumesthatthevarianceequalsthemean, thenegativebinomialismore appropriate
whenever thereisoverdispersion(3()).We used theAkaike InformationCriterioncorrected
forsmallsamplesize(AICc)toselectthebest-fittingdistributionforeachmodel (Hi*
Multi-yearmodel ofWTSH fallout.We relatedthenumber ofWTSH observedduring
128surveysoftheentirestudyarea(16peryeartimes8 years)tothelightregime(unshielded
HPS /shieldedLED), year(2012-2019),and fourenvironmentalvariables:moon illumination
(% lunardiskilluminated),averagewind speed(knots),averagewind direction(degrees),and
Juliandate(thenumber ofdayssincethebeginningoftheyear).
We usedmulti-modelinferencetotestallpossiblecombinationsofthesesixexplanatory
variables.Whenever two ofthreepotentiallyinteractingvariableswereincludedina model,
we alsoconsidered theirinteraction(‘moon'date’,'moon'wind speed’,and ‘wind speed'date’).
We used theAlCniodavg package{29)toassessthemodel fitusingAICc,which prevents
over-fittingby penalizingmodels foreachadditionalvariable[H].AICc assignsa valueto
eachmodel usingtheformula,AICc = -2log(L)+2K{(2K(K+I)/(ii-K-I)),where K isthenum
berofparameters,n isthesample size,and L isthemaximum likelihoodofobtainingthegiven
resultswithK parameters.We usedAkaikeweights(Wj)tocalculatethelikelihoodofeach
PLOS ONE Ihttps;//doi.Of(yi0.1371/journal.pone.0265832March 24,2022 5/17
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,Hawai‘1
model as follows:
where thenumerator isthemodel likelihoodwith Aj showingthechangefrom thelowestAICc
model tothegivenmodel,and thedenominatoristhesum ofallrelativeweights,asdeter
mined by Ar.thechangeineachcontendingmodel fromthelowestAICc model.The lowest
AICc value indicates the model that best describes thepatternsintheobserveddatawithout
over-fitting[31.32|.
To testtheinfluenceofthestreetlights,inthecontextofinterannualvariability,we built
two complementarysetsoffullmodelsthateitherincluded“lightregime”(comparingtwo
groupsofyears;2012-15vs2016-19)orincludedindividual“years”,regardlessoftheir“light
regime".Thisresultedina totalof106models;36 included"lightregimes",36 included
“years”,and 34 includedneither.Individualmodels rangedfrom havingone toeightpredic
tors(fivevariablesand threeinteractions)fSl Table).FollowingMichaeletal.(2014),we
assessedtheimportanceofeachvariableintermsoftheirscaledaverageweight,calculated
usingthemodelswherethosevariableswereincluded.
Yearlymodels ofWTSH fallout.We relatedthenumber ofWTSH observedduring16
surveysoftheentirestudyarea(everythreedaysduringa singleyear)tothefouraforemen
tioned envaronmental variables:moon illumination,averagewind speed,averagewind direc
tion,and Juliandate f.SIFile).We did not consider variableinteractions,and calculated
pseudoR-squaredvaluesbasedon thestandarderrorsusingtheVsq’package[29j.
Results
Fallout records
To interpretour roadsurveysina broadercontext,we compared thenumber ofgrounded
WTSII we documented alongtheSH cornerofO'ahu withtheSLP intakerecords,which pro
videdan island-widemeasureoffallouttimingand magnitude.The SLP intakerecordsof
fledgingchicksspannedfrom November 2 toJanuary5,and our obser\'ationsofgrounded
shearwatersalongtheKalaniana'oleHighway spannedfrom November 6 toDecember 21.
Overall,only2.3% oftheSLP intakerecordsfelloutsideofour roadsurveyperiod(November
6 -December 21),withyearlyproportionsrangingfrom 1.3%to6.3% (SITable).
The totalnumber ofrescuedWTSH broughtintoSLP yearlyacrossthe8-yearstudyvaried
by nearlyan orderofmagnitude,rangingfrom 74 to525 birdsperyear,withan averageof
226.1 +/- 170.6S.D.(median = 159.5)ISlTable!.The number of WTSH carcassesobserved on
thesurveyrouteperyearalsovariedwidely,rangingfrom7 to60 birds,withan averageof24.1
+/● 18.7S.D. (median = 17.5)(SI TableL There was a positivecorrelationbetweentheyearly
number ofroad-killedbirds(oursurveys)and rescuedbirds(SLP records),with2012 and
2016standingoutashigh-falloutyears(r‘= 0.85,df= 6,p < 0.01)(Eig2).There were469 res
cued birdsin2012 and 525 in2016,withbothyearsexceedingthemedian by over300birds.
Likewise, there were 60 road-killed birds in 2012 and 45 in2016,compared tothemedian of
17.5 birds. The lowest numbers of rescued and road-killed birds occurred in 2018, with 74 and
7 birdsrespectively.
Falloutmodeling
Over the8-yearstudy,thenumber ofgrounded WTSH observedpersurveyrangedfrom 0 to
10.withan overallaverageof 1.5+/-2.2S.D.(median= 1)(Fig3).Moreover,toaccountfor
PLOS ONE IhllDs://doi.ora/10.l371/iournal.DonG.0265832 March 24,2022 6/17
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailed shearwater fallouton O'ahu, Hawaii
500-
re
a
-100-
re
V
>
c
c
300-01
re
X
CO
200o
01
ja
E
3
z
100-
6020 ●JO
Number of Carcasses Found During Road Surveys
Fig2.FaiioulcomparisonbetweenSeaLifeParkintakerecordsand roadsurveys.ScallerplotshowingthetotalrescuedWTSH per
yearfromSeaLifeParkintakerecordsversusthetotalWTSH carcas.sesdocumentedperyearduringroadsurveys(r*= 0.85).
mips "dninro/tO l37|/'iGurnalponn Q?65832.qQ02
thelargeproportion(46%)ofabsences(0WTSH delectedduringa roadsurvey),we fittedthe
falloutcountdatatoPoisson(1< VMR < 2)and negativebinomial(VMR > 2)distributions.
We developedand fitteda fullmodeland eightsingle-yearmodels.
Multi-yearmodel ofWTSH fallout.Because9 differentmodel formulationswere
requiredtoachievean AICc weightof0.90,thismodel setwasusedtoascertaintheimportance
of the drivervariables.Of the 9 variablestested,onlytheinteractionbetweenmoon illumina
tionand wind speed(mooiTwind speed)achieveda scaledaverageweight> 1and was thus
deemed an "important”variablefS2Table).Moon, wind speed,andyearallhadweightsof1.
becausetheycontributedan averageamount toeachmodel’sweight.Dale,wind direction,
(moon'dale),and (windspeed’date)had weights< 1,and contributedlessthantheaverage
variabletoeachmodel’sweight.Lightregimehad a weightof0,anddidnotappearinanyof
themodelsrequiredtoachievetheAICc weightof0.90.
The overallbest-fittingmodel had a weightof0.37and includedfourexplanatoryvariables:
moon, wind speed,year,and theinteractionofmoon andwindspeed(moon'windspeed)
ri'able1).Allvariablesinthismodel were.significant,exceptwind speedand year2016(not
significantlydifferentfrom2012).The negativecoefficientforthemoon variableinthismodel
(-2.9)indicatesthat,acrossthe8-yearperiod,fewerbirdsweregroundedwhen a greaterper
centageofthelunardiskwas illuminated.Allyearsexceptfor2016weresignificantlydifferent
7/17PLOS ONE Ihtlns//doi.Ofa/10.1371/iournal.Done,0265832March24, 2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu, Hawaii
100*
>
7 ●>s
<b «
£
(/)
o>
LightQ.
$(/) SO- HPS
●o
^ LEDCD
3
O
<0
U- 25-
00-
2012 2013 2014 201S 2016 2017 2018 2019
Year
DoxplotsofWTSH carcassesobservedduringroadsurveys.Distribution(5.25,50,75.95 percentiles)of thenumber ofFig 3
grouiulcdWI SH observedeachstudyyear(n s 16yearlysurveys).Dots indicateoutliers.
hllDS//doi.oiQ/10.1371/louitiilfxjiie.0265832uOQ3
Tablet. Ehillmodel output.
Explanatoryvariable
Intercept■*
Wind Speed
.Vloon
Year2013
Ycar20H
Ycar2015
Ycar20l6
Year20l7
Year20l8
Ycar2019
Wind Speed’Moon
Estimate S.E. Z-value p-value
<0.001
0.565
2.136 0.580 3.709
●0.576
-3.-185
0.027 0.0‘t6
0.8272.88‘l <0.001
1.711 0.447 -.3.825 <0.001
1.685 0.406
0.365
0.324
-1.148 <0.001
1.490 -4.082 <0.001
0.373 -1.148 0.251
1.661 0-391 ●4.247 <0.001
2,492 0.483 ●5.153 <0.001
1.034 0.366 -2.824 0.005
0.225 0.083 2.710 0.007
GLM resultsfrom best-fitfullntudcl,followinga negativebinomialdistribution.Holdfontdenotessignifienneeatalpha< 0.05.
■*Referenceyear(intercept)is2012.
hltps://doi.or<i/10.1371/1oufnaloone 0265832.1001
PLOS ONE IhllDs://doi.ofQ/10.1371/iQurrtal.DonG.0265832March 24,2022 8/17
Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,HawaiiPLOS ONE
iOO
r
£ so*a
lU <
m
c
GO
E3
' . V
10
"O
)
re
;oc
3
i4
iLJ .i.-
0 *4-
20161.28A0
Wind speed (knots)
Fig-1.1-alloula.sa functionofmoon illumtnalionandwindspeed.ScatlcrplotofthenumberofgroundedVVISH
obscn’cdpersurvey,inrelationtowindspeed,andmoon illumination.Opencirclesindicatethepresenceotfallout,
withtheincreasingradiusrangingfrom1 to10.Smallsoliddotsindicatetheabsenceoffallout(0birds).
blips.',dfnQtfvin.l371/ioutnalDone.0265832flOO-t
from thereferenceyear(2012).The interactionbetweenwindspeedandmoon hadapositive
coefiicient(+0.23)suggestingthatfalloutwas higherduringperiodsoflowerlunarillumina
tionandhigherwindspeed(Figd).
YearlymodelsofWTSH fallout.Inadditiontotheinlerannualvariabilityinthenumber
ofWTSH observedduringroadsurveys(Hig.i).thetemporalaggregationoffalloutacrosssur
veyswasalsohighlyvariable,asevidencedby thevaryingdispersion(variancetomeanratio.
VMR) observedyearly(1.02-4.03)(TableJ)).Moreover,duetothelargeproportion(46%)of
absences(0WTSH detectedduringa roadsurvey),falloutcountsfollowedaPoissondistribu
tion(1< VMR < 2)ineveryyear,exceptfor2019(VMR = 4.03),when thenegative
modelyieldeda lowerAICcvalue.
binomial
Tabic 2. Yearlymodel oulpul.
Dis. p-value
WD
0.408
Pseudo Adj. R" Estimate
WD
●0.032
Year VMR
DateMoonWSIni.DateMuonWSInt.
0.0540.0710.2360.096●0.065
●4.944
0.137●0.744-29.293P 2.11 0.412012
0.2110.006
0,144
0.006
0.0160.028
0.045
0.065
● 1.659 -0.020
0,008
-0.006
0.146
0.751
0.575
0.029
0.003
-0.001
0.002
-0.002
●0.001
-0.022
0.684
0.393
-28.120
3.055
2013 P 1.50 0.51
0,4560.7820.642014 P 1.02
0.720
0.777
0.9020.8181.9930.03-3.6802015 P 1.14 0,33
0.5070.8160.0310.9790.4390.268●0.169P 0.502016 3.89
0,3090.638 0.2910.273●0,027 0.291-0.8540.0998.6902017 P 1.20 0.18
0.178
0.055
0.2610.9590.183 0.546■1.592 0.061●0.190-20.160
42.940
P 0.572018 1.20
0.0040.1960.5430.056-0.115-3.305-0.1000.262019 NB 4.03
NB = negativebinomial),asevidencedbytheGl.M ouipuiofannualfalloutmodels,basedon 16surveys(Nov.6 -Dec.21)andclumpeddatadistributions(P- Poisson,
varianceto mean ratio(VMR). In additiontotheintercept(Int),fourexplanatoryvariableswereconsidered:windspeed{WS).winddirection(WD).lunar
illumination (Moon), and fulianDate (Date).
■■The boldfontdenotessignificanceatalpha< 0.05.andthepseudoadjustedR-squaredquantifiesthemodelfit.
httos//doi.ora'10.1371/iomnal.Doiie.0265832,l(X)2
9/17
PLOS ONE IhttDs://doi.orQ/10.t371/iournal.Pone.0265831?March 24,2022
Wedge-failedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu.Hawai'iPLOS ONE
Overall,theyearlymodelsexplainedawide rangeofthevariationinfalloutthroughoutthe
Hedgingseason,withtheirpseudoR‘valuesrangingfrom18% (2017)to64% (2014).More
over.differentvariableswere significantindifferentyears(Table2).Surprisingly,theinlluence
of moon illumination was not consistent across our study,witha significanteffectinthree
years:itwasnegativetwice(2013and 2019),and itwaspositiveonce(2015).Windspeedhada
significantpositiveeffectinthreeyears(2013,2014,and2016),wherebyhigherwindspeeds
ledtomore fallout.Wind directionhad a significantpositiveeffectonce(2013),wherebywind
blowingfromthesouthwestledtomore fallout.Juliandatewasneversignificant,suggesting
thatfalloutwas variablethroughoutthesur\'eyperiod(November6 -December21).
Overall,whilefalloutwas explainedwell(pseudoR" > 0.5)by windspeedalonein2014
and 2016,itwas explainedmoderatelywell(pseudoR" > 0.3)bymoon illuminationalonein
2015 and 2019. In 2013, about halfof the falloutvariationwas explainedby a combinationol
wind speed,wind direction,and moon illumination.Inthreeyears(2012,2017,and2018),tall-
outwas notsignificantlyexplainedby anyofthepredictors.
Two years(2012and2016)showedsignillcantlyhigherfalloutcomparedtotheotherstudy
years(Fig3)andtogetheraccountedfor55% oftheWTSlIfoundduringroadsurveys.Those
same yearswerealsoresponsiblefor55% ofallrescuedbirdsbroughttoSLP,withinthetime-
frameofthisstudy.Whilenone ofthepredictorvariableswerestatisticallysignificantin2012,
moon and datewere marginallysignificant(0.10< p < 0.05)(Table2).The highestyearlyfall
out occurredin2012,when 60 WTSH weregrounded duringan earlynew moon period
(Juliandays:317-326,November 12-21),and a laterone(Juliandays:344-353,December11-
18)(Fig5).bothofwhichworeaccompaniedby strongwinds(H^). In2016,a new moon
periodoccurredinthemiddleofthefledgingseason,leadingtoasinglepeakinfallout(liig_5),
which coincidedwitha periodofhighwind speeds(> 12knots),increasingthenumberof
birdsgroundingatthistime(Fig6).
Discussion
Timing and magnitude ofWTSH fallout
The strongpositivecorrelationbetweentheyearlynumbersofgroundedWTSl lfoundduring
our roadsurveysand rescuedWTSH broughttoSI.PsuggesUsthatoursmall-scalesurveysofa
fallouthotspotareindicativeofisland-widefallouttrendson O'ahu.Boththerescuerecords
and theroadsurveysdocumented thehighestfalloutin2012and2016,and thelowestfallout
in2018.Moreover,only2.3% oftheWTSH broughttoSeaLifeParkduringthefledgingseason
between 2012-2019felloutsideofour studyperiod(November 6 -December 21),suggesting
thatoursurveywindow capturesmost ofthefledgingseasonfallout.
Interpretationof model results
Multi-yearmodel of WTSH fallout.Our hypothesisthattheLED streetlightswould
increaseshearwatergroundingsdue tohighersensitivitytoshorterwavelengthswas notsup
ported,asthelightregimewas notselectedasa significantpredictorvariableinanyofthetop
models.ItispossiblethatshearwatervisualperceptionofLED lightswasinfactgreater,but
shieldingreducedinitialattraction,thusbalancingoutoverallfallout.However,evenilthis
were thecase,our analy.siscouldnotdistinguishbetweenthesetwofactors,becausethe
changesinbulbtypeand shieldingwerenotindependent.Nonetheless,thisfindinghasuseful
implicationsforresourcemanagerssinceLED lightsareacommon replacementforHPS lights
in 1-Iawai‘iand elsewhere.While we encouragemanagerstoseeklightingadjustmentsthatwill
mitigatefallout,ourstudyshows thatthechangeinstreetlightsfromunshieldedHPS to
shielded3000 K- 4000 K LED did notexacerbatethisproblemforWTSH on O'ahu.
10/17PLOS ONE 1hllDs://doi.ofa/10.1371/ioufnai.Done.Q265832March 24, 2022
Wedge-taiiedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,Hawai'iPLOS ONE
20132012
1 '-o13
Q
S
e
3
3
JC
X
1 0o 3
iulian DaleJulian Dale
20152014
> ;
X
X 2>
'Ca c
c
EE 3&
X jr
A *S X
X 33
20O
e 3
3
Julian DateJulian Date
20172016
> :> ' XX > > . V>
‘i
e
Eaa 3 3
X
m
X X
33 00 cc
3
■e
iulian DateJulian Date
20192018
> ●> :
X >> V 3
e
s:
£ a.
3
X
£CO X
a :o c
c 3
Julian DateJulian Date
Fig5.Moon illuminalionand fallout.Time scriesofllicnumberofgroundedW'TSHobservedpcrsur%-cy(bars)andnightlylunarillumination(backline).Ihc dateson thex-axi$indicatethesurs'cydays.
t'.UfiSi/flojgtg/1.0.1371/>oum3l.DOiie.0265832gOOS
Itispos.siblethat,eveniftherewasaneffectoflighttypeonWTSH fallout,itsinfluencewas
marginalcomparedlotheeffectoftheotherenvironmentaldrivers.Inparticular,thehigher
thanaveragevariableweightoftheinteractionbetweenmoon andwindspeedsuggeststhat
falloutisa dynamicprocess,drivenby thesynergyoflowmoon illuminationandstrong
winds,more so than by moon or wind alone
identifiedtheimportanceofmoon and wind,thisisthefirsttimetheirinteractionhasbeen
considered.
Thissignificantinteractionunderscoresaconceptualmodel,wherebywindspeeddeter
minesthemagnitudeoffledgingbirdsdepartingtheircolonies,andthemoon illumination
’able).Whilepreviousstudieshave
11/17
PLOS ONE Ihllos://cloLorci/tn.1371/iQurnnl.pone.02658.12March 24.2022
Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,Hawai'iPLOS ONE
20132012
o
g
Julian Date
20152014
o
g
20172016
0c c
c
t3
a
T3 c
>o
4
JuImm DateJuNiin Dali’
20192018
*c
f\ o
o
“C
a
●c
5Q
Julian DiiteJulian Date
VVTSH observedpersurvey(bars)andnightlywindspeed(backline).Therig6.Wind speedand fallout.Time seriesoftheluimhcrofgrounded
dateson thex-aaisindicatethesurveyclays.
htiDS//doi.oro/10.l371/iou[nal.pone.0265832.q006
12/17
PLOS ONE Ihtlps://cioi-orQn0.1371/iQufnal.Done.0265832March 24.2022
Wedge-lailedshearwaterfallouton O’ahu,Hawai'iPLOS ONE
determinestheattractionofthosefledglingstowardonshorelighting.Thisconceptualmodel
explainwhy yearslike2016.when thepeakofthefledgingseasoncoincidedwitha new
moon and highwind speeds,havegreaterfallout.
While the interactionof the lunar illuminationand thewindspeedwascritical,thelimingof
thesevariables,capturedusingtheirinteractionswithdate,werelessimportant.Together,these
resultssuggestthat,\vilhinthetimeframeofourstudy,falloutismostdependentonthetempo
raloverlapoflowmoon illuminationandhighwinds,ratherthanontheirspecificliming.
YearlymodelsofWISH fallout.The influenceofthefourpredictorvariables(wind
speed,winddirection,moon, and Juliandate)werenotconsistentacrossall8 studyyears.
Whilemostpreviousstudieshavefoundstrongnegativerelationshipsbetweenmoon illumina
tionand fallout,ouryearlymodelsonlydocumented thispatternin2years[i,8,10,J_L,31).
One possibleexplanationforthisresultcouldbea mismatchbetweenmoonrise/moonscl
limesand WTSH fledging.We usedan averagelunardiskilluminationforthethreenights
priortoeachsurvey,assumingthatthiswouldberepresentativeofvisiblemoonlightwhile
WTSM wereHedging.However,ifmostbirdsfledgeshortlyaftersunset,beforethemoon rises
duringwaningmoon phases,conditionswillresembleanewmoon Similarly,ifisland
topographyorcloudsobscurea risingmoon froma givennatalcolony,thenavigationalbene
fitsprovidedby thelunardiskcouldbecompromiseduntilthemoon risesoverobscuring
landscapefeatures.The peakfledgingtimesofWTSH areunknownbutcouldbeusefulto
improveourunderstandingoftheinfluenceofmoonrise/moonsettimesonfallout.Further
more,thelackofstronglunartrendsintheyearlymodelscouldbeduetosmallsamplesizes.
can
witheachyearonlyinvolving16surveys.
ContrarytoRodriguezclal.(2014),who documentedasignificantincreaseinfalloutasthe
fledgingseasonprogressed,ouryearlymodelsdidnotfindadateeffect.However,thelikeli
hood offindingan effectofdatedependspartlyon thetimingandthedurationofthestudy
period.Whileopportunisticstudiesusingintakerecordsandcitizen-scienceprogramssample
a widertemporalwindow,spanningbeforeand afterthefledgingseason,oursurveysspanned
a narrowtemporalwindow duringtheWTSH fledgingseason.Thus,ourresultssuggestthat,
due tointerannualvariabilityinthetimingand magnitudeoffallout,on averageitisdistrib
utedevenlythroughoutourstudyperiod(November6 -December21).Fledgingprimarily
duringthis6-weekperiod,and islikelymodulatedbyavarietyoffactors,including
breedingphenology,chickdevelopment,andenvironmentalconditions[10,33,^5).
The positiverelationshipbetweenwindspeedandfalloutislikelyrelatedtothefledglings
usingthisenvironmentalcueforfledgingandrelyingonwindtotakeflight.Onepossible
explanationforwhy we observedmorefalloutwithhigherwindspeedsisthatintermediateto
strongwindspeedenableWTSH totakeflight,howeveralackofflightexperienceandmuscle
developmentmay make itdifficultforfledglingbirdstonavigateinstrongwinds,thusleading
tomore falloutunderhigherwind speeds[1^ 37).
Althoughthemodelresultssuggestthatwind speedismoreimportantthanwinddirection,
an exceptiontothisgeneralpatternwasobservedin2013,whenpeakfalloutcoincidedwitha
periodofmoderatetoweaksoutherlywinds(SIFig).A previousstudyon0‘ahusuggested
thatwinds from thesoutheastwere more common duringa yearofveryhighfalloutand
hypothesizedthatbirdswereadvectedtothenorthwestanddepositedalongtheentirewind
ward coastoftheisland(221.The lackofsignificanceofwinddirectioninyearsotherthan
2013may be relatedtotheprevailingwind patternsonwindward0‘ahu,whichrarelyswitch
from thenortheastdirection,thuslimitingthecomparison ofdifferentwinddirections.Fur
thermore,becausesouth-westerlywindsduringthestudyarecharacterizedbylowerspeeds,
anypotentialinfluenceofdirectionisnotindependentfromthewindspeedeffectdiscussed
occurs
previously(S2 Fig).
13/17
PLOS ONE ihltDs://doi.OfQ/10.1371/iournal-Dono.0265832March 24,2022
Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu.HawaiiPLOS ONE
Previousstudiesshow an increaseinfalloutwhen prevailingwindsaredirectedtowardbrightly
litcoastalareas(J^ 11).Yet,theinfluenceof wind directionisdifficulttointerpretsinceheadings
circular(0-360degrees)and shouldbecarefullyconsideredon acase-hy-cascbasis.Because
theprevailingwindsinourstudyareaarcthenortheasterlytradewindsor.southern(Kona)
storms,thesebi-directionalwind headingsfacilitatedtheanalysisandsimplifiedtheinterpreta
tion.With theexceptionof2013,peakfalloutoccurredduringtradewind.s(Ujg6).
Althoughourstudydidnotshow a significanteffectofJuliandateonfallout,previousroad
surveysfrom0‘ahuspanningtenyears(2002to2010),revealedthatNovember25wasthe
peakfalloutdate,with67% ofthegroundedWTSH foundduringaone-weekperiod(21-27
November) (21).We hypothesizethatthetimingofthemoon phase,inrelationtothispeak
falloutperiodcoulde.xplaintheinlerannualrelationshipofmoon illuminationandfallout.
Namely,higherfalloutoccursinyearswhen thenew moon overlapsthepeakfalloutweek(21-
27 November).
In 2015, the fullmoon occurred on November 28,whereas in 2013 and 2019 themoon
phasewasclosertoa new moon on thatdale.Itappearsthatwhenpeakfalloutcoincideswith
a new moon, a singlefalloutpeakoccurs,thuscausinga negativecorrelationwithmoon illu
mination.However,ifpeakfalloutcoincideswitha fullmoon,theunimodalpatternbreaks
down, resultinginirvosmallerfalloutpeaks.Previousworkyieldedaquadraticrelationship
betweenthetimingofthefullmoon and thenumber ofNewell’sshearwater{PuJ)musnewelli)
fallout,withfewertotalgroundingswhen thefullmoon occurredduringthemiddleofthe
month (5).When we replicatedthisanalysisforWTSH, thequadraticmodelwasnotsignifi
cant(R" = 0.038,F2.5= 1.140,p = 0.39),suggestingthatannualfalloutdidnotfollowthesame
patternwiththetimingofthefullmoon. Although,othervariablessuchasthetimingofmoon
rise,cloudcover,and topographyblockingthemoon werenottakenintoaccountandmay
playaroleinthemoon’sinfluenceon fallout.Demographicfactors,involvingthesizeofthe
breedingpopulationand thereproductivesuccesslikelyinfluencetheyearlysupplyoffledging
chicks\5\.
are
Implicationsforfalloutmitigation
Our resultsarereassuringbecausetheysuggestthattheshieldedLED streetlightsdidnot
increaseWTSH mortalitydue tofallout,aswe hypothesized.Giventhestrongcorrelation
between thedead birdsobservedinour road surveysand thelivebirdsbroughttoSLP,thereis
evidencesuggestingthattheshieldedLED streetlightsimpactedthenumberofbirds
affectedby falloutoverall.Ilowever,becausethesenewlightsdidnotreducelallout,wildlife
managersmay considermodifications.suchasdimming,wavelengthalterationormotion
sors,tomitigatenegativeimpactstofledgingWTSH on 0‘ahu[6,.IJ)].
A recentsurveyoflightingexpertssuggeststhatwhileLEDscanbeadjustedtoreducelight
pollutionand minimizewildlifeimpacts,yetmunicipalitiesrarelycapitalizeonthosebenefits
(19).For instance,althoughnew-technologyLED streetlightscanfilteroutlowerwavelengths
(17],fullspectrumwhiteLED light.smaximize brightness,and arecommonly chosento
replaceHPS streetlights.Furthermore,LEDs come inavariety'ofCCTswithoptionsaslowas
2200 K. themaximum temperatureexpertsrecommend forwildlife(12)-However,municipal
itiescommonly implement3000-5000K LED streetlightsbecauseoftheirefficiencyfor
human use(J9J.Futurestudiesshouldcompare differentLED lightingoptionsinareaswhere
seabird falloutoccurs to determine the characteristicsthatbestmitigatenegativeimpactsto
seabirds and other wildlife.
While itmay be unfeasibletoreducelightpollutionwhereverfalloutoccurs,areasnear
breedingcoloniescouldbetargetedforlocalizedmanagement[21].Inadditiontodiminishing
no
sen-
14/17
PLOS ONE IhtlDs://doi.orQ/10-1371/iournaloonR.0265832 March 24.2022
PLOS ONE Wedge*I^Iedshearwaterfallouton O'ahu,Hawaii
lightpollutionduringthefledgingseason,we alsoencouragecommunity-basedrescueefforts
forWTSH totargetfallouthotspotson 0‘ahuon nightswithlowmoon illuminationand
strongwinds.Furtherdocumentationoffallouthotspotscouldhelpguidelightingmanage
ment and rescueeffortsthroughouttheHawaiian Islands.
Finally,predictivefalloutmodelsarelimitedby thelackofcomprehensiveannualpopula
tionestimates,which mighthaveexplainedsome oftheinterannualvariationinthenumberof
groundedbirds.Thus,annualWTSH breedingpopulationsizesandreproductivesuccess
wouldlikelyimproveourunderstandingofeflloutinterannualvariabilityandtrendsin
Hawai'i.The findingsand conclusionsinthisarticlearethoseoftheauthorsanddonotneces
sarilyrepresenttheofficialviewsoftheU.S.FishandWildlifeService.
Supporting information
SI Table.Annual datafiromsealifepark and road surveys.ComparisonofannualWTSH
falloutmagnitude(totalnumber ofgroundedbirds)andtiming(dateranges)fromSeaLife
Parkintakerecordsand roadsurveys(thisstudy).Summarystatistics(mean,median,and
ge)refertothenumberofgroimdedbirdsencounteredyearly,basedon16standardized
surveysspanningNovember6 toDecember21.
ran
(TIF)
S2 Table.VariableimportanceinAICc analysis.Scaledaveragevariableweights.(>1values
indicategreaterthanaverageweightwhenvariablewasincludedinmodel;weights= 1are
average,weights<1 lessthanaverage).
(TIF)
SI Fig.Wind directionand falloutin2013.Wind directionandfalloutduringthe2013fledg
ingseason.Blacklineiswinddirectionandwhitebarsarenumberofbirdspersurvey.
(TIF)
$2Fig.Wind speedandwinddirection.Scatterplotofwindspeedandwinddirectionduring
thefled^ngseasons2012-2019(R^= 0.71).
(TIF)
SI File.WTSH falloutdatafrom road surveys.Datafromroadsurveys(total= 128)includ
ingvariablesyear,Juliandate,moon illumination(%),windspeed(knots),winddirection
(degrees),lightregime(HPS= highpressuresodium,LED = lightemittingdiode),andnum
berofgroundedWTSH observed.
(XLSX)
Acknowledgments
We would liketothankJeffPawloskiforprovidingSeaLifeParkintakerecords,DavidField
and SusanCarstennforinputon theanalysisand writing,andPelagicoslabmemberswho
assistedwiththeroadsurveys:SarahDonahue,MichelleHester,AngelicaMoua,AnessaMus-
grove,and Dan Rapp.
Author Contributions
Conceptualization:K.DavidHyrenbach,KeithSwindle.
Data curation:JenniferUrmston.
Formal analysis:JenniferUrmston.
15/17PLOS ONE IhHos://dQi.ora/1Q.1371/foumal.oone.0265832March 24,2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton 0‘ahu,Hawaii
Funding acquisition:K.DavidHyrenbach.
Investigation:JenniferUrmston.
Methodology: JenniferUrmslon, K. David Hyrenbach,KeithSwindle.
Projectadministration:K. David Ilyrcnbach.
Supervision:K.DavidHyrenbach.
Visualization: Keith Swindle.
Writing- originaldraft:JenniferUrmslon.
Writing- review& editing:K.DavidHyrenbach,KeithSwindle.
References
RodriguezA, Holmes ND. Ryan PG, WilsonKJ,FaulquierL.etal.Seabirdmortalityinducedbyland-
based artificiallights.ConservBiol.2017; 31:986-1001. https://doi.ora/i0-111t/cobi.129QQPMID:
28151557
Cianchetti-Benedetti M, Becciu P, Massa B. Dell’Omo G. Conflictsbetween tourislicrecreationalactivi
tiesand breedingsheanvaters:short-termeffectofartificiallightand soundon chickweight.EurJ Wildl
Res. 2018; httDS://doi.ora/10.1007/s10344-018-1178-x
Syposz M, Padget 0, WillisJ,Ooren BMV, GilliesN, FayetAL.etal.Avoidanceofdifferentdurations,
coloursand intensitiesofarlilictallightby adultseabirds.ScientificReports.2021:httDs://doi.ora/10.
1038/54159B-021 -97986-x PMID: 34556717
TeiferTC. Sincock JL, Byrd GV, Reed JR. AttractionofHawaiianseabirdstolights:Conservationefforts
and effectsof moon. Wildl SocBull. 1987; 15:406-413.
AinleyDG, PodolskyR,DeforestL,Spencer G. The statusand populationtrendsoftheNewell'sShear
water on Kaua'i:Insightsfrom modeling.StudiesinAvianBiology.2001; 22:108-123.
Raine H. Borg JJ,Raine A, BairnorS, Borg Cardona M. Lightpollutionand itselfecton YeikouanShear
waters in Malta; causes and solutions. BirdLifc Malta, Malta.2007.
Rodriguez A. Dann P. ChiaradiaA, Reducing light-inducedmortalityofseabirds:Highpressuresodium
lightsdecreasethefatalattractionofshearwaters.J NatConserv.2017;h»os://doi.ora/10.1016/i.inc.
2017.07.001
Le Corre M. OllivierA.RibesS. JouvenlinP. Light-inducedmortalityofpetrels;a 4-yearstudyfrom
Reunion Island(IndianOcean). BiolConserv.2002; 105:93-102.
Rodriguez A. Rodriguez B. (2009).AttractionofpetrelstoartificiallightsintheCanaryIslands:Effects
ofthe moon phase and age class,Ibis.2009; hiips://doi.or9/lQ.l11l/t,i474-9i9X.2009.00925.x
Rodriguez A, BurganG, Dann P,JessopR, Negro JJ,ChiaradiaA. Fatalattractionofshort-tailedshear
waters toartificiallights.PLoS ONE. 2014; htlps7/doi.orci/1Q.1371/iQurnalponc.QIIO114PMID:
25334014
Syposz M. Goncalves F,CartyM, HoppittW. Manco F.FactorsinfluencingManx Shearwatergrounding
on thewest coast ofScotland.Ibis.2018; hltps,V/doi,o,rg(,10.,i1HflbL12594
GlassJP, Ryan PG. Reduced seabirdnightstrikesand mortalityintheTristanrocklobsterfishery,AfrJ
MarSci. 2013: htlos://ctQi.ora/10-29B9/1814232X.2013.860049
Hyrenbach KD, Unnston JL.SwindleK.Road surveysdetectunusuallyhighWedge-tailedShearwater
falloutinSE Oahu duringthe2011 fledgingseason. Elepaio.2021; 82:1
PodolskyR. AinleyDG. Spencer G. DeforestL,Nur N.MortalityofNewell'sShearwaterscausedbycol
lisions with urban structures on Kauai. Waterbirds. 1998; 21:20-34.
Travers MS. DriskillS. Stemen A. Geelhoed T, Golden DM. etal.2021. Post-collisionimpacts,crippling
bias,and environmentalbiasIna studyofNewell'sShearwaterand HawaiianPetrelpowerlinecolli-
sior\s.Avian Conser/Ecol. httns://rtoioriT/10.5751/ACE-01841-l60t 15
Reed JR, Sincock JL, Mailman JP. Lightattractioninendangeredprocellariiformbirds:Reductionby
shieldingupward radiation.The Auk. 1985;https://doi.orn/l0.2307/4QaG782
Longcore T.Hazard orhope? Research;Lightspectrumand wildlife.2018;70;52-57.
Longcore T.RodriguezA, WitheringtonB, Penniman JF.HerlL.HertM. Rapidassessmentoflamp
spectrum toquantifyecologicaleffectsoflightatnight.J ExpZoolA EcolInlogrPhysiol.2018;https;//doi.orQ/10.1002/lez.2184 PMID: 29894022
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
16/17PLOS ONE IhltDs://doi.oron0.1371/|ournal.pone.0265832March 24,2022
PLOS ONE Wedge-tailedshearwaterfallouton O'ahu,Hawai'i
Schulte-RomerN. MeierJ,Soding M, Dannemann E.The LED Paradox:How lightpollutionchallenges
expertstoreconsidersustainablelighting.Sustainability(Switzerland},2019;https://doi.Ofq/10-3390/
sul1216160
HartNS. Microspectrophotometryofvisualpigmentsand oildropletsina marinebird,thewedge-tailed
shearwater (Pulfinuspadficus);topographicvariationsinphotoreceptorspectralcharacteristics.J Exp
Biol.2004; httc^s://doi.oro/10.1242/ieb.00857PMID: 14978063
FriswoldB. Swindle K.Hyrenbach KD. PriceM. (2020).Wedge-tailedshearwater(Ardennapacifica)
falloutpatternsinformtargetedmanagement. Mar Omithol.2020: 48:245-254.
Work T. M.. and Rameyer R. A. (1999).Work et al 1999 WTSH mass mortalityHawai'i.JournalofWild
lifeDisease.35(3).487-495
Michael PE, Jahneke J,Hyrenbach KD. Relativeinfluenceolstaticand dynamic featureson black-
footedalbatross(Phoebastrianigripes)habitatuse incentralCaliforniaSanctuaries.FishOceanogr.
2014: 23:18-31.
ESRl. ArcGtS Pro (Version2.5).EsriInc.2020: Availablefrom:https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcqis/
products/arcois-or^ovenrlew.
DivisionofForestryand Wildlife,Hawai'i(DOFAW). 2020: UnpublishedData.
LeopoldLB.The interactionoftradewind and sea breeze,Hawaii.J Atmos Sci.1949.
PacificIslandsOcean ObservingSystem (PaclOOS) (2019.December 31)Weather Observations:
Moku 0 Lo ‘e O ‘ahu. 2019; Available from: www.pacioos.orQ.
U.S. Naval Observatory. Fractionof the moon illuminated.2018; Availablefrom:https://www.us-PQ.
nayy_fnil/lJSNO/a5tronumical-aDDlicalions/ftala-servicGS.'data-services
R Core Team. R: A language and environment lorslatislicalcomputing.R FoundationforStatistical
Computing, Vienna,Austria.2019;Availablefrom;http://www.R-Droiect.Qrg/.
Vor Hoef JM, Boveng PL. Quasi-Poisson vs.NegativeBinomialRegression:How shouldwe model
overdispersedcountdata?Ecology.2007; 88:2766-2772.h!tp.S://dgJ,.<)rfl/_ipj89p/p7:0043,.1PMID:
16051645
Burnham KP. Anderson DR. Mullimodelinference:UnderstandingAlC and BIC inmodel selection.
Sociol Methods Res. 2004; hltos7/dQi.ora'1Q.1177/00491241042686 44
MazerolleMJ. AlCemodavg: Model selectionand MultimodelInferencebased on (Q)AIC(c)R package
version1.31.2013;Availablefrom:hftp://cram,f:p.i;pjRct.prgAveb.'packa5es/AlCcmpd_aya'index.htm!
RodriguezA. RodriguezB,CurbeloAJ,PerezA,MarreroS.NegroJJ.Factorsaffectingmortalityof
shearwaters strandedby lightpollution.Anlm Conserv.2012;htips://doi.orq/iQ.i11l/).l46g-l795.2Qi..l.
00477.x PMID: 22389582
RodriguezA,GarciaD,RodriguezB,Cardona E,ParpalL,PonsPArtiliciallightsandseabirds;Islight
pollutiona threattorthethreatenedBalearicpetrels?J.Ornifhol.2015; 156:893-902.
Hyrenbach KD. Taleoftwoyears:Monitoringwedge-tailedsheanvatersatFreemanSeabirdPreserve
in Black Point.O'ahu. Elepaio.2011; 71:17-20.
de Grissac S. Barlumeus F. Cox SL, Weimerskirch H. Early-lifeforaging:behavioralresponsesolnewly
fledgedalbatrossesloenvironmentalconditions.EcolEvoi2017;7:6766-6778.hltos://doi.ofq/1Q,
1002/ece3.3210 PMID: 28904758
FayetAL. Explorationand refinementofmigratoryroutesinlong-livedbirds.J Anim Ecol.2020;89:16-
19. hlips:.'/doi.ofq/10.1_l1V.!365r26_56^1,3162PMID: 32091641
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
17/17PLOS ONE IhttDs://doi.orci/10.1.371/iournal.none.0265832March 24,2022
COUNTY OF MAUI
WASTEWATER RECLAMATION DIVISION
2200 Main Street.SUITE 610
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
RECEIVED
2022JUL-I m 7-^5
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKJune 30, 2022
TO: COUNCIL CHAIR LEE AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
FROM: SCOTT ROLLINS, CHIEF
SUBJECT: TESTIMONY REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORT 22-47 BILL 21, CD1 (2022)
RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING
COUNCIL MEETING JULY 1, 2022 - ITEM J.1. No. 22-154
The Wastewater Reclamation Division(WWRD) opposes the proposed billin itscurrentform
as itwillimpact our constructionprojects,reduce the safetyforour employees, decrease security
at our facilities,increaseenergy consumption, and may hinder our abilityto fullyperform our jobs
during non-daytime hours. The Division requests that the billbe recommitted for further
discussion.Detailson proposed changes are as follows:
1. WWRD recommends thatthe proposed billbe amended to allow for an exemption for
temporary lightingforwastewater or otherutility/roadwayprojects,
a. ConstructionProjects- Several CapitalImprovement Projects(CIP) or portionsof
projectseach year are scheduled duringnight-timehours in order to avoid traffic
congestion or are requiredto be performed during low wastewater flow periods to
avoid potentialsewage spills.iWthout temporary lighting,nightwork isno longer
a viable alternativefor managing trafficor conducting criticalconnections or
upgrades during low flow hours,
b. Spillresponse and emergency repairs:Linebreakages,blockages and emergency
repairsare notlimitedtodaytime hours. Inorderto helpassure worker safetyand
timelyresponse,temporary lightingissometimes necessary to perform work.
2. WWRD recommends thatthe proposed billbe amended to delete the requirement forwall
surfaceshitby lightto be non-reflectivesurfaces.This hinders operations inseveralways:
a. Break-in'sand theftfrom our County base yards and treatment facilitiescosts us
tens ofthousands ofdollarseach year. Recentlywe have had catalyticconverters
stolen, vehicles broken into resulting in tools/supplies stolen, vehicles
stolen/vandalized,gas tanks damaged and drained etc.Securitylightingis a
deterrentand isneeded to Identifypeople on surveillancevideo. Security lighting
and the energy consumed at WWRD facilitiescan be minimized when reflective
lightisconsidered,
b. Non-reflectedlightisabsorbed. Thus, when buildingsare paintedwithdark colors
or matte paint,sunlightwillfurtherheat buildingsresultinginincreased energy use
and the associated expense to keep equipment and/or occupants cool.
TESTIMONY REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORT 22-47
June 30, 2022 Page 2 of 2
3. WWRD recommends thatthe requirementforshortwavelengthcontent to no more than
two percent of blue lightcontent be eliminated,
a. The State Department of Land and Natural Resources Divisionof Forestryand
Wildlife,the stateauthorityon wildlifemanagement and seabird falloutdoes not
mention any recommended changes to lightingin relationto blue light.
fhttPsV/dlnr.hawaii.qQv/wildlife/seabird-fallout-season/^
b. WWRD was unable to findany studiesthatcorrelateda lower seabird falloutdue
to these proposed LED fixtures,
c. This limitationwillresultinfewer lightingoptions.
4. WWRD recommends that exemption H in section20.35.060 includemajor Maui County
facilitiessuch as Wastewater or Water Treatment facilities,
a. These facilitiesare large in nature and typicallyrequire perimeter lightingand
lightingoftreatmentbasins/ponds/channelsformonitoringthe treatment process,
safetyand security,
b. Night time calloutsfor staffanswering alarms or retrievingequipment for
emergency repairsrequiresadequate lightinginorderto see the surrounding areas
and avoidany possiblehazards (intruders,spillsetc.)
We appreciatethe abilityto comment on thisbilland thank you foryour considerationof
these changes. Please contactour Department/Divisionor myself (270-7427) should you have
any questionsor requireany additionalinformation.
Sincerely,
Scott R. Rollins,P.E.
Wastewater Reclamation Division Chief
EricNakagawa, DirectorDept,ofEnvironmentalManagement
FrancisAsiu,Wastewater OperationsProgram Superintendent
xc:
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
JORDAN MOLINA
Director
GARY L. I.AMBROSE
Deputy Director
WADE SHIMABUKURO, P.E.
Development ServicesAdministration
COUNTY OF MAUI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET, ROOM 434
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
RODRIGO “CHICO" RABARA, P.E.
Engineering Division
JOHN R. SMITH. P.E.
Highways Division
Telephone: (808) 270-7845
Fax: (808)270-7955
June 29, 2022
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
APPROVED FOR TRANSMITTAL
Mayor Date
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Council Chair, and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
Dear Council Chair Lee and Members;
SUBJECT: BILL 21,GDI (2022)RELATING TO OUTDOOR LIGHTING COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-47
The DepartmentofPublicWorks opposes the proposedbillinitscurrentformbecauseofthe
directand immediate impacts to the publicthatwillresult.The Departmentrequeststhe billbe
recommitted for further discussion.
In additionto the concerns raised by the Department of the CorporationCounsel in their
correspondencetotheMaui County CouncildatedJune 17,2022,theDepartmentisconcernedabout
thefollowingunintendedconsequencesthatwillresultfromthepassageoftheproposedbill.
Housing projectsmust be stopped immediatelyupon enactment ofthisordinance
toverifycompliance oftheirlightingfixtures.
The bill’sthree-yearexemptiononlyappliesto“fixturesinstalledpriortotheenactmentof
the ordinance".Any new housingprojectthathas notyetinstalledtheiroutdoorlights
must be stoppedupon enactmentofthisordinanceuntilcompliancecanbeverified.New
permitsforhousingprojectscannotbe issueduntilcompliancecanbeverified.
1.
Honorable Michael P. Victohno
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Council Chair and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
June 29, 2022
Page 2
Itwilltake time forthe Department to establishthe trainingand expertisenecessary to
determine whether a lightingfixtureiscompliant,particularlyas itrelatesto measuring
bluelightcontentaccordingtothe bill’sdefinition.Unlessprojectsoptfortheremovalof
alloutdoorlightsassociatedwiththeirprojects,theprojectsmust be stoppedorbe subject
to enforcement action for non-compliance untilsuch time when the Department is
preparedto make compliancedeterminations.
The Departmentrecommends the proposed billbe amended to exempt residential
propertiesfrom complyingwiththenew lightingstandards,whichisconsistentwiththe
Hawaii County ordinance.
Current energy efficiencyprojectsinvolvinglightingmust be abandoned and the
associated material costs and energy savings willbe immediately lost.
The Countyspent$3.8milliontopurchase4,800brand-newstreetlightfixturesas partof
itsStreetlightConversionProject(the“Project").None ofthesefixturescomplywiththe
filteredor blue lightcontentrequirementsof the proposedbill.Forthe Departmentto
continuethe project,another4,800 streetlightfixturesmust be purchasedata costthat
willbe significantlyhigherthan theinitial$3.8millionalreadyspent.
Additionally,theconversionfrom high-pressuresodium tolightemittingdiode(LED)light
fixtureisestimated to save the County $660,000 per year inelectricitycosts.Completion
oftheProjecthas alreadybeen delayedby threeyearsresultinginlostenergysavingsof
approximately$2 million.The Projectwillneed to be entirelyrestartedto ensure
compliancewiththeproposedbill.Thiswillcause an additionalthreeyearsofdelaysand
resultinthe lossof an additional$2 millioninelectricitysavings.
The Departmentrecommends the proposedbillbe amended to allowfora limited
exemptionforstreetlightsto allowtheCounty’scurrentstreetlightconversionprojectto
proceedand requirethatsubsequentstreetlightreplacementstocomplywiththenew
lightingstandards.
Emergency operationsand CIP projectswillbe hindered.
Events and activitiesconducted at nightrequirethe use oftemporarylighting.Unlikethe
HawaiiCounty ordinance,the proposed billdoes not providean exemptionforsuch
temporarylightingand thereareno readilyavailablealternativesthatwouldcomplywith
theproposedbill’srequirements.Any currentorproposednightactivitieswouldneedto
be suspendeduntilcompliancecan be determined.
Impactedactivitiesincludeemergencyoperationsand capitalimprovementprojects.
Withouttemporarylighting,nightwork isno longera viabletooltomanagingtraffic
impactsinsituationswhereconcurrentroadwayprojectsandpost-disastercleanupsare
occurringinthe same vicinity.
The Departmentrecommendstheproposedbillbe amended toallowforanexemption
fortemporary lighting.
2.
3,
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Council Chair and
Members ofthe Maui County Council
June 29, 2022
Page 3
The requirement for wall surfaces to be “non-reflective”is unenforceable and
contraryto the purpose and intentof the County’s Energy Code.
The proposedbillrequiresany wallsurfacehitby lighttobe “non-reflective”,butdoes not
definewhat thismeans. The billattempts to provideexamples of non-reflectivesurfaces,
such as the use ofmatte paint.However, by definition,mattepaintdoes notcomplywith
the requirementofbeingnon-reflective.The Merriam-Websterdictionarydefines“non-
reflective”to mean not capable of reflectinglight.The leastreflectivepaintdevelopedto
date,named SingularityBlack,stillreflects1.5% of lightthathitsthe surface.Typical
matteblackpaintreflectsabout20% oflightthathitsthesurface.No surfacecan be non-
reflectiveexcept inthe absence oflight.
Additionally,requiringbuildingsurfacestobe blackordarkcolorsunderminesthebenefits
thatthe County'sEnergy Code seeks to achieve. A consequence of the reduced
reflectivityprovidedby dark colorsisan increaseinheatabsorption.Buildingcooling
systems have towork harderand expend more energytocounteracttheadditionalheat
loadsabsorbed by the dark-coloredsurfaces.The added heatthatdarksurfaceswill
absorb reduces the energy efficiencyofthe building.
The Departmentrecommends the proposed billbe amended todeletetherequirement
for non-reflective surfaces.
The requirementfor“filtered”LEDs isunenforceable.
The proposedbillrequiresoutdoorlightfixturestobe a “filteredLED”. A lightfilterisan
accessorydeviceand isnotan integralpartofa lightfixture.The proposedbillwould
requirelightfixturestobe filteredeven ifthelightfixturealonecomplieswiththebluelight
contentrequirement.Residentsand businesswouldnotbe abletofindcompliantlighting
because filtersare nota commonly availableaccessoryforoutdoorlighting.
The Departmentrecommends theproposedbillbe amended todeletetherequirement
for“filtered"lightfixtures.
No evidence supports lessblue lightwillresultinlessseabirdfallout.
The Departmentrecognizesthatartificialhuman activitieshavethepotentialtoimpact
naturalprocessesintheenvironment.However,theDepartmentisnotawareofany
evidenceshowingthatreducingthe bluelightcontentofoutdoorlightingresultsinany
measurable reductionto seabird fallout.Therefore, itisunclearwhetherthepurported
benefitsoftheproposedbillwilloutweighitsunintendedconsequences.
The StateDepartmentofLand and NaturalResources,who istheState'sauthorityon
wildlifemanagement and seabirdfallout,maintainsa SeabirdFalloutSeasonwebpagefhttDs://dlnr.hawaii.Qov/wildlife/seabird-fallout-season/)thatprovidesinformationabout
seabird-friendlylighting.The strategiespresentedon thewebpageforreducinglight
4.
5.
6.
Honorable Michael P. Victorino
For Transmittal to:
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Council Chair and
Members of the Maui County Council
June 29. 2022
Page 4
attractionfocuses on controllingthe directionand intensityof light.Nowhere on the page
does itrecommend prohibitingblue light
in May 2022, Hawaii PacificUniversityand the U.S. Fish and WildlifeServicepublished
a studyconducted on Oahu thatevaluatedthe impactson wedge-tailedshearwaterfallout
caused by convertingstreetlightsfrom high-pressuresodium toLED fixtures.Itwas found
that the conversion to LED fixtureshad no observable impact on fledglingfallout.
The Departmentrecommends the proposed billbe amended todeletethe requirement
relatingto blue lightcontentso thatthe County'seffortscan be betterdirectedat
implementingthe bill’smore meaningfulmitigationsrelatingto controllingthe direction
and intensityofoutdoorlightinstallations.
Thank you foryour considerationof thismatter. You may contactme at270-7845 withany
questions.
Sincerely
JORDAN MOLINA
Director of Public Works
JM:jso
s:\jordan\transmittals\alee_bill21 cdl2022 reoutdoorlightingcomm report22-4706.29.22
received
im JUL -I AH 7:i)7
MAYOR ALAN M ARAKAWA
407 S. KAMEHAMEHA AVENUE
KAHULUl, HI 96732
OFFlOe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
July1,2022
Chair Alice Lee
Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
RE: TESTIMONY OF MAYOR ALAN M ARAKAWA
County Communications 22-151, Resolution22-119 Entitled:Proposing an amendment to the revised
charterof the County of Maui, as amended to establisha Maui County Community Water Authorityand
an EastMaui Community RegionalBoard.
Aloha ChairLee and Members of the Maui County Council,
As the former Mayor of the County of Maui, Iam testifyinginstrongoppositionof the Charter
Amendment thatisbeing proposed thatwould authorizethe County to establisha Countywide Water
Authorityand an EastMaui Community RegionalBoard.
Pleasefindbelow a longlistof questions/comments thatshould be reviewed and addressed priorto
Councilpassingforinclusioninthe ballot.As you can see from the listbelow, there are too many
questions about the measure to talkabout within one testimony.Here are my questions:
PRIMARY MESSAGE: Pleasedeferthisso thatthe appropriateagenciesand expertscan be
consultedto avoidpre-emption,duplicationofservices,publicconfusionand government
inefficiency.
1.
The languageofthe charteramendment (item7) does not contemplate a feasibilityanalysis—it
saysthe Water Authorityisto manage water collectionand deliverysystems,includingEast
Maui —where's the feasibilitystudy?
2.
Why isthere no costanalysisof thisproposalbeforeitisput on the ballot?Doesn'tthe public
have a rightto know the truecostof what they are being asked to vote on?
3.
Currently,water isoverseen atthe Statelevel(i.e.CWRM, BLNR).Section8-19.5.3clearlystates
thatthisCounty Authorityisa middle-man to the DWS—hiring an administratorand necessary
staffto manage water collectionand deliverysystems acquired,owned or operatedby the
County. Thisisa lotof money fora middleman. Why isthereno delineationof the respective
powers of the Authority,BWS, CWRM and DWS?
4.
Page 2
This isa radicaldeparture from the current DWS as a department of the County managing
county water systems and theirlands.Inthe last30 or so years,we have seen DWS go from a
County department, to oversightby the BWS as a semi-autonomous agency, back to being a
county department. Thisyo-yo'ingof publicpolicyhas had an overallnegativeeffecton DWS
not havinga stablestructureto operate under,with each change takingyearsto fully
implement.
5.
The sudden requestto now considera Countywide Water Authorityas a Charterchange begs
some significantquestioning as to the motivation and need. IsItto bid on the water leases?
Couldn't DWS do that ifthey saw fitto do so?
6.
Conflicts7.
with 8-11.6ofthe Charter,Directorof Water Supplypowers, duties,and functions:
"responsibleforthe day-to-daymanagement and controlof allwater systems
of the county."Conflictwith 8-19.5(1)
"prepare long-rangecapitalimprovement plans"Conflictwith 8-19.5 (7 & 8)
"implement enacted long-rangecapita!improvement plansand water use and
development plans"Conflictwith 8-19.5(7 & 8)
with 7-5 (11)and (16)of the Charter,Mayor's powers,duties,and functions.8-19.5(3)
seems to give certainpowers to the Administrator.
HawaiiSupreme Court has heldthat"repealby implicationIsdisfavored".Richardsonv.
C&C of Honolulu,76 Hawaii46,868 P.2d 1193 (1994).
a.
1.
2.
3.
b.
c.
8. Last sentence in 8-19.2,establishesthe East Maui Community Regional Board, isthat
appropriateinthe Charter? Language alreadystatesthat members should resideinthe
applicablecommunity plan area.
Has DHHL/HHC been consulted?Ifthey arerequiredtoparticipate,shouldn'tthey be consulted
inregardto creation?
9.
10. Boards won't be created untilacquisitionor controlof a water collectionand deliverysystem.
What about existingsystems under controlof DWS?
11. Hawaii State Water Plan isrequired by HRS 174C-31, what willbe the relationshipbetween the
Hawaii StateWater Plan and the plans requiredby 8-19.5(7&8)? Has therebeen any thought to
any duplicationof work or other Inefficiencies?
12. What exactlywillthe "water lease"inthe recitalscover? Inpreparationofthe applicationfor
the lease,has there been a review of DLNR's generalterms and conditions?What additional
oversightisanticipatedto be requiredof a new "department"?
13. 8-19.5(2)isa charterprovision,willthere be a violationoftheCharterifthe Administratorfails
to acquire the State water leaseagreements?
Pages
14. The recitalsrecognizethatthe water Isa publictrustresource and citesthe Hawaii Constitution,
ArticleXI,Section 7; however itfailsto note that the legislaturewas charged with providingfora
water resourcesagency,which isthe Commission on Water Resources Management. The duty
to protectthe publictrustisheld by CWRM - not the County. Thisresponsibilitywas recently
made clearinthe LahainaAquiferWater Management Designation.
15. 8-19-5(4)referencesinitiationofeminent domain proceedings, but itisunclear as to what this
means or how Itwould be triggered;whileSection4-2(7)of the Charterrequiresa resolutionto
authorizeeminent domain proceedings.
16. The Charter Commission never looked at the issue because no one brought itup to them. Ifthis
was an issueback inJanuary of thisyear thatcaused the Councilto writeto DLNR, why didn't
the Charter Commission look at it?
The Water Use & Development Plan(WUDP) isnot mentioned inthe "Whereas" clauses.The
WUDP, passed by thisCouncil,with a committee reportfrom January 21 of thisyear mentions
the concept of water authoritiesor publiccompany as something to look at "inthe future".
Specifically,itsays itisa second stage priorityto look at Inthe next 5-20 years,with a study to
fullyunderstand Itsramifications- a study thatshould be undertaken by DWS, the Council and
the Administration.See recommendation 92 on page 270 of the WUDP. Why Isthe WUDP not
being followed?
17.
Hasn't the issue of water allocation been dealt with inEastMaui by the CWRM? Ifso,then why
do we need a county authorityto run an aging,intricatewater deliverysystem when a
competent privatecompany who builtthe system over 100 yearsago can do the job forus?
18.
What isDLNR's response to the lettersnoted inthe Whereas clauses? Not partofthe public
record. Ifthere isno reply,what was the county'sfollow up?
19.
The authoritywilltake yearsto be fullyoperational.Where arethe draftordinancesand rules
thatwould be requiredof the authorityto be operational? Has anyone even looked at what
would be required?What isthe authority'sannual budgetjustforadministration?What
revenues are there currentlyout of thiswater system?
20.
The authoritycould not allow water to leave E.Maui leavingUpcountry high and dry. What
publicpolicyinterestisthere Inregionalfiefdoms controllingresourcedistributionand the cost
of that water?
21.
Who willpay when a system breaksdown and there isno water or money to fixit?Here'sthe
answer: the County taxpayer.
22.
When is the effective date of this charter amendment?23.
Isthe charteramendment supported by State law?24.
Page 4
25. Why hasn'tCorporationCounsel signed offas to form and legality?
As responsibleCouncilMembers, ItIsyour job to address and put fortha fullyvetted measure for
inclusionon the ballotforthe residentsof Maui County. Iurge you to do the rightthing.
Mahalo,
Alan M Arakawa
Former Mayor of Maui County
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Friday,July1,2022 8;47 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: Bill21 Testimony on forJuly1sthearing,9 AM - on behalfof Maui Hongwanji
Temples
Bill21 Hongwanji Testimony.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: KallieKeith<kaIliekeith@gmail.com>
Date: July 1,2022 at 5:18:39 AM HST
To: "AliceL.Lee"<Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>,"TashaA. Kama" <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>,
"Tamara A. Paltin"<Tamara.Paltin(5)mauicountY.us>,KellyKing <Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>, "Mike J.
Molina" <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>, YukileiSugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>, "Shane
M. Sinenci"<Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>, Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>,
Diane.shimizu@mauicounty.us.Dawn Lono <Dawn.Lono@mauicounty.us> ,"Evan P. Dust"
<Evan.Dust@mauicounty.us>, "Mona A. Perry"<Mona.Perry@mauicount y.us>,
maria.ornellas@mauicounty.us,trinette.furtado(S)mauicounty.us,mikiyokouchi@mauicount.us, Kate
Griffiths<Kate.Griffiths@mauicounty.us>,mikiyokiuchi@mauicount y.us,"Keani N. Rawlins"
<Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>, "Angela R. Lucero" <Angela.Lucero (S>mauicounty.us>
Subject:Bill21 Testimony on forJuly 1st hearing,9 AM - on behalf of Maui Hongwanji Temples
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom kalliekeith@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear Council Members and Staff,
Please findattached writtentestimony for Bill21 on behalf of the four Maui Honganji Temples. Iwill
attend thismorning's hearing to present a statement orally.
Insummary, the Maui Hongwanji Temples are concerned about the potentialimpact of Bill21 on our
major summer fundraisers,which are the Bon Dances.
We cannot comment on the contents of the billbecause we've not had enough time to learn the
technology, the changes being proposed, and how they willimpact each of our four Maui temples, in
Kahului,Lahaina,Makawao and Wailuku. Therefore, we have commented on the process, which we
believewould betterserve the goals of the billand the publicifitincluded some form of public
outreach.
We suggest that before holding a finalvote on thisbill,you consider outreach that includeseducation
and opportunity for input.We feelthiswillimprove publicacceptance of the proposed changes
particularlyamong smaller non-profitsand businessesas well as those holding familyand community
center-based events.
1
We believeoutreach willminimize publicfear/discontentover the changes, and improve mutual support
withinand between groups and familiesaffectedby the bill.We alsosuspect outreach willimprove
compliance, and thereby minimize the need forenforcement, itwillcertainlyhelp us inour individual
temple planning and decision making processes.
Thank you foryour kind attention,and effortson behalfof Maui County, our environment, and wildlife.
Sincerely,
KallieKeith-Agaran
808-280-1926
kalliekeith(5)Rmail.com
2
Written Testimony on Maui County Bill21
Kallie Keith-Agaran on behalf of Maui Hongwanji Temples
June 30, 2022
Iam a member of the Kahului Hongwanji Board of Directors.
We learned about this billlast week and circulated itand the Corporation Counsel revisionof the
bill,through leaders at the Wailuku, Makawao and Lahaina temples fortheirinput. Iwas asked
and agreed to speak forthat group today.
Firstwe fullysupport protectionof the environment and wildlifepreservation.Especiallysea birds,
as they’rean abundant source of wildlifediversityin Hawaii, and they connect us to other parts of
the world. Our support comes directlyfrom a briefpledge recitedin unison at every weekly
Hongwanji service in Hawaii, calledthe “Golden Chain of Love”. The relevantpassage is:
“Iwilltryto be kind and gentleto every livingthing
and protectallwho are weaker than myself.”
Unfortunately,before we can support thisbill,we face 3 challenges,mostly relatedto the process
of thislegislation,not the aim and not necessarilycontent
1. We’re concerned the regulationsmay affectour largestannual fundraisers,the outdoor "bon
dances” thatare hosted throughout the summer, by allthe Buddhist temples on Maui, and
across Hawaii. For example, Kahului Hongwanji brings in aimost half itsoperating budget
during Obon. Usually each of the roughly 15 temples on Maui hosts at leastone night of bon
dancing every summer.
2. Understanding the proposed changes and how they willaffectus requirestechnical
knowledge thatisbeyond most of our membership. To be able to make an informed decision,
we need those who can understand itto learn about the bill,then discuss itamong our temple
boards and leadership.
3. We only learned about the billlastweek. We were surprised and a littleconcerned to know the
vote on the billwas scheduled to followfirstreading by about 10 days. We feelthisisa
premature and short decision time. For the follow reasons we hope you willconsider revising
that plan and schedule.
All the Buddhist temples on Maui depend on bon dance revenue for financial stability.That is
true thisyear more than ever,as we’ve had littleto no public revenue forthe lasttwo years.
At a time when we’re vulnerable due to loss of revenue and manpower over the last two
plus years, we’re not only facing uncertainty about the success of our major fundraiser this year,
we are learningof proposed lightingregulationthatmay affectour abilityto hold these events as
well.This compounds uncertainty, and discourages our members.
We haven’t had enough time to digest the bill,or learnabout the technology and proposed
changes. We certainlyhaven’t been able to discuss itourselves or even ask questions of experts
or county officials.Most of us simply don’t know enough yet to be able to do so.
We cannot support any proposed lighting regulation untilwe understand itin relation to
each of our facilities. We cannot even comment on the legislationuntilwe have an estimate of
the effortand expense requiredforeach Maui Hongwanji temple to comply.
1/2
At the very least,our boards need to a) spend time \A/ithpeople who can explain various and new
aspects of lighting,b) discuss itamong ourselves,and c) discuss with County officialsand/or
legislatorswho can confirm or clarifyour understanding about how the new regulationswillaffect
us. We must have clarityon what will be required for compliance. For our temples, that takes
PREPARATION AND TIME.
Ipersonallyknow of many other small organizationsand businesses, and regular privateevents
held inhomes and community centers,thatwillworry afterthisbillpasses whether they can
comply. In my opinion, passing or trying to implement regulations likethis with so little
community input could create a significantPR challenge. At the very least,the current
schedule seems likelyto createa wave of unhappy surprisein the public.
Maui Hongwanji leadershipbelieveit’simportantforour temples to be able to participatein some
sortof publicprocess thateducates us about the regulationtechnically before the billIs
voted on. Itshould also provide time for discussion among ourselves to reach consensus.
Ideally itwould include a chance to confirm our conclusions with well-informed public
officials,who have looked at and understand each of our facilities.This willsignificantly
improve the acceptance of the regulationsby groups likeours.
We suggest the councilplan an educationalpresentationthat includes images, videos, and a
displayof the varioustypes of lighting,and fixtureswith briefexplanations about what would be
required or prohibited.This could be done on a YouTube video, advertised on radio,TV and social
media, and circulatedfora month. Followingthatifthere are a significantnumber of groups
unhappy or confused about it,you can hold a few publicmeetings forthose who have questions
or feedback, revisethe billifneeded, then vote.
We believesomething likethiswillresultin much lesspublicconsternationand politicalpressure
than quick passage withoutsignificantpublicknowledge or input.Ifthe costs for most small
businesses and organizationsare not too burdensome, public outreach willincrease the chances
of publicacceptance, implementation and compliance, over what we thinkyou willexperience by
passing the billinthe absence of outreach or publicinput.
Sincerely,
KallieKeith-Agaran
For those Unfamiliar with Obon or Bon Dances
During Obon (August inJapan) Buddhists express theirgratitudeto deceased ancestors who
have made theirlivesand conditions possible.The Japanese celebrated indance for nearly800
years before the festivalsdied out there. In Hawaii we celebrate Obon with dance, food and family
fun.Bon Dances are usuallyheld every weekend from earlyJune through the end of August.
Each temple requiresmonths of planning,extensivemanpower forthe event, and a fullweek of
intensive,hands on preparation.The dances, games, food and other sales bring in hundreds of
guests to most temples, even the small ones. Bon Dances are among the oldest public events of
culturalsignificancestillbeing held in Hawaii. They attractJapanese touristsin large numbers.
Priorto the pandemic, DBEDT reported thattouristsfrom other parts of the US and elsewhere
were attending in Bon Dances in increasing numbers. So through tourism,they are an indirectand
growing revenue generator for the County and State.
Until about 8 or so years ago bon dances had died out in Japan. They were reestablished
because so many Japanese touristsin Hawaii were delightedto see and participatein their
historicalculture,a group of them made the effortto revive it.
2/2
DAVID Y. ICE
GOVERNOR
STATE OF HAWAI I
mi JUNiM=»f5J » H9irrcovERNoa
STATE OF HAWAI I
STATE OF HAWAI‘1
DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS OFFiaE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKP.O.BOX 1879
HONOLULU. HAWAI I 96805
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM J.AILA. JR. CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION
BEFORE THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
MEETING ON JULY 1. 2022 AT 9:00 AM
RESOLUTION NO. 22-119 (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members ofthe County Council:
The DepartmentofHawaiianHome Lands (DHHL) submitsthe following
comments on thisproposed resolutionthatwould placeon the next General Election
ballota proposed amendment tothe County Chartertoestablishwater authoritywith
regionalcommunity boards.
DHHL has been activelyfollowingthe development ofthisand relatedproposals.
We recognize both thatconcerns over the financialand operationalimplicationsofthis
proposal have been raised,and also thatthe measure currentlyonly proposes for
enactment, ratherthan obligates,County acquisitionand operation of non-potable water
systems.
We supportand are gratefulforthe inclusionofthe language inthe proposed
measures which specifythat:
● “WHEREAS, as a government agency,the Maui County Community Water
Authoritywould have an unambiguous obligationto uphold the publictrust
doctrineand the legalobligationsof the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act
and the State of Hawai'i Constitution";and
● A member ofany establishedboards would include“...onemember who isa
representativeof the Hawaiian Homes Commission, and isnominated by the
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands."
The availabilityof water isone of the key barriersDHHL faces in the
development and deliveryof homesteads across Hawai'i. This proposal could
meaningfullyhelp DHHL and the County implement the Hawaiian Homes Commission
Act, a Constitutionalmandate and a condition of statehood.
Thank you foryour considerationof our testimony.
RECEIVED
JOHN BLUMER-BUELL
PostOfficeBox 787,Hana.Hawai’i96TO JUN30 AH 7=56
Email blubu@hawaii. rr.com
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKJanuary 7,2020 (TestimonyforJanuary 8)
Maui County Council Planningand SustainableLand Use Committee,
Tamara Paltin,Chair
Sent Via Email topslu.committee@mauicounty.uswithRequest for
Confirmationof Receipt
PublicTestimonyforJanuary 8,2020,Meeting Regarding Agenda Items
PSLU-34, PSLU-44, and PSLU-43.
Aloha Chair Paltinand Committee Members,
I supportthecreationoftheproposedAdvisory Committees to the
Maui PlanningCommission. However, INSTEAD, I suggestcreatinga
Planning Commission foreach community. This willsave time,taxpayer
fundsand be more accessibletothecommunities.Legaloptionsand due
processforparticipantswillremain thesame.
The Lanai and Molokai Planning Commissions demonstratethe
practicalapplication.In contrast,the Hana Advisory Committee to the
Maui Planning Commission demonstratesa wastefulduplicationoftime
and expense. And, demonstrates how a good, legaldecisionin Hana can
be totallycorrupted by the Maui Planning Department and Planning
Commission. The recentexample of the proposed Nahiku Community
Center demonstrates how the Hana Advisory Committee to the Planning
Commission made a community supported legaldecisiononly to be
TOTALLY IGNORED by the Maui Planning Commission. Several
1
commission members had neverbeen toNahiku and clearlydid not
comprehend theapplicationsor situation.
IT IS WAY PAST TIME FOR A HANA PLANNING COMMISSION.
I make theserecommendations having servedthreeterms on theHana
Advisory Committee totheMaui PlanningCommission. I was asked by
Mayor Hannibal Tavaresto serveon theinitialcommittee.
The Hana AdvisoryCommittee was initiatedby CouncilMember
Velma Santosduringa verycontroversiallanduse case.Mahalo Velma!
Read thecontextintheJuly30,1987.Maui News story“Hana
ApartmentPlanDebated”,page 2,lasttwo paragraphs.Attached as Exhibit.
Mahalo foryour carefulconsideration.
John (Blumer-Buell)
2
Count^Clerk RCOCIVSB
mi M 29 PH » 25Boisvert-Jorgensen<infofordenise@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 1:29PM
County Clerk
ChatterAmendment testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom infofordenise@yahoo.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant '
I fullySUPPORT thecharteramendment becausenow isthetimeto finallybe on the
rightsideofhistorywhen itcomestowatermanagementinMaui County.
The establishmentofaMaui CountyCommunityWaterAuthority,administeredby
members ofthecommunity,iscriticaltoindependencefrom theself-serving,water-
ho^;ing,corporatepowersthathaveessentiallycontrolledtheisland’swaterand daily
lifeforalmost200 years.
The time has come for the residentsof Maui to make their own decisions that will
protectand benefittheirisland’sfarmers,theabilityto fish,thesafetyof the
environment,and ultimatelythecommunity.
Mahaloforyourunderstandingandkindconsideration.
Denise Boisvert
Honlulu
RECEIVED
mi JUN 30 AN 7:56
June 29, 2022
The Honorable Tamara Paltin
Chair,and Members, Maui County Planning& SustainableLand Use Committee _ ^
RE: PSLU-3; PSLU-2; and PSLU-53 Relatingto the South MauiCommunityPIcm0 O F TH E
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Chair Paltinand Councilmembers,
Mahalo fortheopportunitytoreviewtheImplementingActionscontainedInthe Countywide PolicyPlan.
Maui IslandPlanand, specifically,theSouth Maui Community Plan.Ma'alaea VillageAssociation(MVA)
eagerlyawaitstheSouth Maui Community Plan updateprocess and appreciatesthe chair'sinitiative.
MVA applaudsthisCouncilforrealizingthe importanceofprotectingand restoringMa'alaea Bay - not
onlyforMa'alaea residentsand visitorsbut forallofMaui.Your supportforpurchasingMa'alaea Mauka
withCounty Open Space funds,fundingforMa'alaearegionalwastewater solutionsInthe SRF request,
and fundingcoastalerosionresearchinMa'alaea Bay begun lastyear alladdress importantImplementa
tionActionsintheCountywide PolicyPlan.Maui IslandPlan,and South Maui (K-M) Community Plan.
Maul Island Plan:
HeritageResources/ScenicResources isa major iteminthe MIP butmost taskshave yettobegin.
Thisisa majorweakness. Maui’squalityof lifeand futuresustainability,includingthe'righfkindofvisitor
who willrespectand supportMaui Nui,depend on protectingand preservingwhat makes Maui 'no ka oi’.
MIP prioritiesincludethe‘developmentofa masterplanforthe preservationand enhancement ofthe
Ma'alaea Beach recreation area and Kealia Pond National WildlifeRefuge to includethe possiblemauka
realignmentof NorWi KiheiRoad.’
Ma'alaea was identifiedas one of the locations for a Transit Corridor due to itslocation at the crossroads
to Lahaina and frequentroad closuresdue totrafficaccidents.Futuresolutionsto highway trafficconges
tionmust be found,IncludinglocatingrentalcarfacilitiesInresortareas ratherthan allat KahuluiAirport
Another priorityunder Agriculturallandsdealswithwater reuse and recycledstormwaterrunoff.Ma'alaea
wvrtrsolutionsaddress thisongoing need to preserveMaui’spreciouswater supply.Mahi Pono has
pledged 10 acres forthe Ma'alaea regionalsystem.The water can be reused fornumerous purposes.
South Maui Community Plan Update:
The 'planningand design of the Ma'alaea -Kealiabypass highway’ isa major priorityft>rconnecting South
Maui withWest and CentralMaui throughMa'alaea and alleviatingsome ofthearea’strafficissues.This
itemshouldbe pursued by theMetropolitanPlanningOrganization.Mahi Pono may be a willingpartner.
Sadly,majoritemsInthe2012 Countywide PolicyPlan relatingto promoting“SustainableUse and
Growth Management" have notbeen implementedand Maui issufferingforitIhope thisand future
Councilswillstronglyencourage the PlanningDepartmentto tacklethischallengingbut importanttask.
It’snot too late.Ihope thatthe South Maul Community Plan update process willpay attentionto these
key plansand findways to manage Maul’sfuturegrowth forthe benefitof Maui citizensand visitors.
Mahalo foryour time and leadership.
Lynn Britton
Immediate Past Presidentand Government Af^irs Chair,Ma'alaea VillageAssociation
Ma’alaea VillageAssociation
P. O. Box 2122, Wailuku, HI 96793
maalaeavillageassociation@gmail.com
DOREEN CANTO
GRANT CHUN
DAVID DELEON
PAUL DESLAURIERS
KAREY KAPOI
KELSON KAUANOE BATANGAN
KEONI KUOHA
DOUGLAS MARDFIN
ASHLEY OLSON
GEORGE PURDY IV
0, ,l»'
CHARTER COMMISSION
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
EMAlLt CHARTER.COfcfMISSION@)rIAUlCOUNTY.GOV
TELEPHONE! (808) 270-7740
FACSfMILEt (808) 270-7152
January 20, 2022
To: Maui Charter Commission
Sherry Broder, Charter Commission’s Legal Analyst
Richelle M. Thomson, First Deputy Corporation Counsel
Keola R. Whittaker, Deputy Corporation Counsel
From:
Subject: Draft Charter Commission Report
This memorandum provides important information on your recently
released draft report. Due to the large numbers of proposals, the report required
the work of an entire team of people, including your analyst, legal advisors, and
staff.
After reviewing the many proposals in the context of theirinteractionand
effect on the charter as a whole, we want to bring to your attention those
proposals which raise serious legal,practical or other issues. These concerns
were addressed in our presentation at the Commission’s January 11, 2022,
meeting and are summarized below.
The County Charter functions as our county constitution. For that reason,
the charter is,by design, difficultto change. Ifan amendment isapproved that
contains significantlegal or practical issues, the voters of the County willnot be
able to change itfor another two years or willhave to hold a specialelection.It
may also require legal action in order to obtain a court’s interpretationof the
amendment.
In its coming meetings, the Commission will have the opportunity to
consider changes to the draft report before itis transmitted to the Council, using
all information available to the Commission, including public testimony,
information from the administration, and input from the Commission’s Analyst
and Corporation Counsel. We are availableto assistyou in draftingchanges to
January 20, 2022
Page 2
the proposals that willreduce the risk of creating unnecessary legal, practical
or other problems while meeting your desired policy outcomes.
Number of Ballot QuestionsI.
The draft report includes 40 separate ballot questions. We are not aware
of any prior charter commission including this many proposed amendments on
a singleballot.By comparison, the 2012 charter commission approved 11 ballot
questions and the 2002 charter commission approved 14 questions. The two
charter commissions prior to 2002 asked voters to consider the approval of an
entirely new charter in a single ballot question.
We kept in mind the goal of reducing the number of ballot questions when
we drafted the Commission Report to the Council. Several of the 85 approved
proposed amendments were able to be combined into single questions. While it
may stillbe possible to make a few further combinations, however, because the
current draft of proposals spans across the entire charter and address many
different policy issues, combining many of them further will likely be difficult
without making individual ballot question unwieldy and confusing. There may
stillbe ways to combine some of the ballot questions either with a few
adjustments to the current wording of the amendments or otherwise.
Ballot questions are legally required to communicate the proposed
amendment accurately and in words that the average voter can understand.
Combining unrelated amendments into a single ballotquestion may require that
questions include multiple subparts, could lead to confusion or, worse, be
impossible to defend in court should someone mount a legalchallenge.
The Hawaii Supreme Court set out in City and County of Honolulu v.
State, 143 Hawaii 455, 431 P.3d 1228 (2018) the principles for the legal
sufficiency of ballot questions:
The ballot question must generate “a knowing and deliberate
expression of voter choice.”
The “broad authority” to propose amendments for ratification“is
subject to the limitationthat the ballotmust enable the voters to
express theirchoice on the amendments presented and be in such
form and language as not to deceive or mislead the public.”
Proposed amendments and theircorresponding ballotquestions are
both constitutionally and statutorilyrequired to be phrased in clear
language that is not likelyto deceive voters as to theirnature and
effect.
1.
2.
3.
January 20,2022
Page 3
Reducing the number of ballotquestions willlikelyrequire eliminating or
rewording certainproposals. Taking such actions at this stage ofyour process
is not unusual. The 2012 charter commission, for example, approved
amendments that were combined into 21 ballot questions. That commission
subsequently cut back on the number of proposals that ultimately went to the
voters. They were able to remove enough proposals to go from 21 ballot
questions to 11.
Proposals With Minimal Legal EffectII.
Some proposals will have a minimal legal effect on how the county
currently functions because they don’t require any specificaction that differs
from current practice. Other amendments address a subject matter that is
currently addressed by state law or county ordinance, meaning this subject
matter can be amended through legislativeaction by Council or the state
legislature.Those proposals are listedbelow.
Proposal 2 - Open Government {addressed by state law)
Proposal 6 - Cost of Government Commission (minimal legaleffect)
Proposal 10 - Friendly Culture (minimal legaleffect)
Proposal 20 - Cultural Resources Commission (addressed by County
ordinance)
Proposal 36 - Electronicsignatures (addressed by statelaw)
Proposal 40 - Removal of transitionalprovisions (minimal leggil
effect)
III. Effective Date of Amendments
Charter amendments are effectivethe day they are ratifiedby the voters,
unless indicated otherwise. For County government to operate effectively,itis
essential that allof the amendments requiring either the appointment of a board
that does not now exist or a budget to hire staffare given a latereffectivedate.
The followingamendments require budgeting and the hiringof staff.We
recommend they be given an effectivedate ofJuly 1. 2024:
● Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions
● Proposal 21 - Bifurcationof the Department of Housing & Human
Concerns
● Proposal 22 - Semi-Autonomous Board ofWater Supply
● Proposal 26 - Department of ‘OiwiResources;
● Proposal 27 - Director of Ethics
● Proposal 29 - Community Commission & Community Boards
January 20, 2022
Page 4
Proposal 30 - County Hearings Officer
The followingamendments require the appointment of a board that does
not yet exist,and once empaneled, the boards/commissions willneed to adopt
administrative rules. We recommend that they be given an effectivedate of July
1. 2023:
Proposal 34 - Independent Nominations Board
Proposal 35 - Independent Selection Commission
Proposals 4, 7, 11, 12, 27, and 33 insofar as they reference the
boards created by questions 34 and 35.
Incomplete or Conflicts Amendments
There are several amendments that need attention because they are
incomplete or create conflictswith other provisions of the charter or state law.
We strongly recommend that you review the following amendments for
significantlegal issues that need to be addressed:
● Proposal 1 - Council Elections {incomplete/internalconflict)
● Proposal 2 - Open government (conflictwith statelaw)
● Proposal 4 - Auditor (incomplete)
● Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions (incomplete / significant
legal problems)
● Proposal 16 - General plan (internalconflict)
● Proposal 18 - Automatic approval (internalconflict)
● Proposal 21“ Bifurcation of Housing 85 Human Concerns
(incomplete)
♦ Proposal 22 - Semi-Autonomous Board ofWater Supply
(incomplete/internalconflict)
● Proposal 28 - Ethics Code (seriouslegalissue)
♦ Proposal 30 - County Hearings Officers(incomplete/conflictwith
state law)
● Proposal 35 - Independent SelectionCommission
(incomplete/ethicsissues/conflictwith judicialethics)
● Proposal 39 - PoliceCommission (internalconflict)
IV.
Other Legal ConcernsV.
There are other amendments that we highly recommend you review for
consistency and clarity.Some of these amendments are in tension with, but
may not directlyconflictwith, other portions of the charter or existinglaw.
Others may cause confusion. These include the followingamendments:
Janua:t7 20, 2022
Page 5
Proposals 11 86 12 - Corp Counsel/Prosecutor
Proposals 15 8s29 - New Planning Commissions/Community
Boards
Proposals 33 - Board Qualifications
Proposals 34 8& 35 - Nomination Board / Selection Commission
Proposals 16 through 19 - Planning
VI. Financial Impact
The Commission requested an assessment of certain of the amendments.
We forwarded that request to the County Auditor, and will transmit that
information upon receipt. The following amendments are anticipated to have a
significantfinancial impact, which may factor into the Commission’s decision
making:
Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions
Proposal 26 - Department of ‘Oiwi Resources
Proposal 27 - Ethics Director 8s Staff
Proposal 29 - Community Commission 8& Boards
Proposal 30 - County Hearings Officers
VII. New Planning Commissions
One specific proposal - Proposal 15, New Planning Commissions - has a
significantnumber of legal and practical issues that should be addressed. We
recommend continued study and consideration of the following:
Procedures to transitionfrom one Maui Planning Commission to six
separate Planning Commissions that consider deadlines for the
Maui Planning Commission and development of new processes for
each of the six new commissions.
1.
Whether decentralization would produce duplication and
inefficiencies and how many additional staff members will be
required.
Whether having differingSpecial Management Area boundaries or
administrative rules within each of the separate planning areas on
the Island of Maui would lead to confusion or legal issues.
Whether having differing approval processes for Special
Management Area and other permits or approvals would create
2.
3.
4.
January 20, 2022
Page 6
inequities between planning areas on the same island, and between
neighboring properties.
How the six different commissions would address island-wide
planning issues including zoning changes, changes to the island
wide plan, and island-wide land-use ordinances.
Whether there are any examples of communities the size of Maui
Island with decentralized planning approval processes and what
benefits or challenges those communities have faced.
The planning department and existingplanning commissions and advisoiy
commissions may be able to assistin this effort.
5.
6.
VIII. Conclusion
A number of your proposals require a rigorous review of the legal,policy,
and practical implications of reforms, with further input and analysis from
experts and stakeholders, prior to finalizationand transmittal to the County
Council. The Council has only 30 days to consider the Commission’s Final
Report and proposed amendments and ballot questions, so transmitting a
document that is as accurate and complete as possible willenable that body to
perform itsreview. The finaldecision on the number, combination and language
of ballotquestions is the responsibilityand kuleana of the Commission.
Additionally, consideration of various changes - from elections to planning
to appointment of individuals to key positions in government - should include
an assessment of how these discrete changes affects the ability of county
government to operate efficientlyand effectively.We therefore highly recommend
that you invitethe public, experts, and those currently working in government
to provide further comments and proposals regarding important but complex
work.
If the Commission concludes that any proposed amendments require
additional consideration and study, ithas the option of forwarding the proposal
to the Council to include on a future ballot after thorough review.
Mahalo nui loa for your excellent, dedicated, and hard work, and we look
forward to continuing to work with you to meet your objectives.
Minimal Legal Effect
/ Could be
Accomplished by
Ordinance
Suggested later
effective date for
budgeting/ legal/
practicalreasons
Expected to
cost over
$500,000
annually
Has Must-fix
legaland/or
conflict issues
Has highly-
recommended
legalfixes
Addressed by
Ordinance or State
Law
No. PROPOSAL
1 Council Elections X
2 Open government/video conference X X
Office of Council Services3
4 CountyAuditor	
FiscalImpacts to Charter
X X
5
6 Cost of Government X
7 County Clerk X
8 Appoint and retainadmin dept heads
9 Mayoral residencyrequirement
10 Friendlyculture X
11 Corporation Counsel X X
12 Prosecutor X X
13 Appropriation
14 Good Standing
15 New Planning Commissions XX X X
General Plan / Land Use Ordinances16 X X
17 Review Community Plans X
Automatic approval of general plan/ordinances18 XX
19 Island-wide Plan X X
20 Cultural Resources Commission X
BifurcateDepts of Housing & Human Concern21 X
22 Semi-Autonomous BW5 X
Dirof Water Supply and EP23
24 Police Chief
25 Liquor Control Commission / Adjudication Board
26 Oiwi Resources X X
EthicsBoard / Directorof Ethics27 X X
Ethics Code28 X
29 Community Commission & Boards X X X
Maui Charter Commission 1 Proposal Reference Sheet
i
i
I»
Minimal Legal Effect
/Could be
Accomplished by
Ordinance
Suggested later
effective date for
budgeting/ legal/
practicalreasons
Expected to
cost over
$500,000
annually
Has Must-fix
legaland/or
conflict Issues
Has highly-
recommended
legalfixes
Addressed by
Ordinance or State
Law
No. PROPOSAL
30 County Hearings Officer X X X X
31 Initiative
32 Recall
33 Board Qualifications X
34 independent Nomination Board X X
35 Independent Selection Commission X X X
ElectronicSignatures36 X
37 Remove Cap on Penalties
BilingualGovernment38
39 Police Commission Reports X
40 Unneessary TransitionalProvisions X
Proposal Reference SheetMaui Charter Commission 2
Count^lerk R5C5IV.&Q'
TriaCabral <vibrantIiving11@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 11:18PM
County Clerk
Water Authority
From:
Sent: 202ZJUN 30 AH 7: 56
To:
Subject OFFICE OF THE
eOUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfromvibrantlivingn@amaiLcQm.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha!
Iam inFullSupport ofthe Maui Community water Authority.
Maui county must do betterto ensure the sustainabilityof our resources.
Privateand or Corporatecontrolshould never be given
over our waters or any of our naturalresources.
We NEED thisCommunity water AuthorityNow!
Sincerely,
Tria Cabral
Haiku, 96708
1
Count^Clerk RECEIVED
HLOH Hana Dialysis<huilaulimaohana@gmail.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 10:03PM
County Clerk
EAST MAUI WATER AUTHORITY
From:
Sent: mu\i-\ AH7.-q7
To:
Subject: OFFICE GF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfromhuilaulimaohana@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Iam supportingour EastMaui to take fullcontroloverthe EastMaui waterAuthority.ItIsonlyirghtthatthiskuleana be
placedInitsproperhands.Thereisno betterEntitybut EastMaui folkswho trulyknows the historyand well beingof its
resourcesforthe benefitofour lifestyle,cuturaland historyofEastMaul Waters.Why bringinoutsidersto maintain this
kuleanawhen arenotevenfrom ourpreciousAina.
Mahalo,
Lehua Cosma
ActiveKupuna and Advocate of the East Maul
1
Count^^lerk —Sg.CEI\4gp
2IIZ2JUL-IAM?:'!?
From:
Sent:
HLOH Hana Dialysis<huilaulimaohana@gmail.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 10:23PM
County Clerk
EastMaui Water Authority
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom huilaulimaohana@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
My name isLehua Cosma, a Kupuna, and a strongactiveadvocateformy EastMaui Community ofHana. Itrulysupport -m./
the billbeforeyou introducedby our EastMaui Coun ILmember, Shane Sinencl.We are frustratedthat an outsider is
willingto take fullcontrolover our EastMaui water.They comes to our community as a threatbecause theydo not have
a clueofhow our EastMaui community knows itshistory,culturallifestyleand the importanceofwater we relyon to
sustainour traditionofsurviving.Wai iswater,ifwe as a community do not come togetheras one, we loseitsessential
purposeand livelihood.Wai isourway of life.With thatbeingsaid,keep our EastMaui Water inthe righthands!
Mahalo,
Lehua Cosma
1
Count^£leH<
Alex Detrick<radalohamaui@gmail.com>
Friday,July1,2022 11:42 AM
County Clerk
Pleasesupport the creationof the Maui Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget email from radalohamaui@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Sincerely,
Robert A Detrick
211 E Ikea Moku PI
Kihei,HI 96753
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
Mauimanakal <dave@maulmanakai.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 6:47AM
County Clerk
Rightof EntryKeawakapu No 22-58
From:
Sent: miM30 AH 7:57
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom dave@mauimanakai.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iown unit#215 at the Mana Kaiand have forover 20 years. Itisat the end and on the second floor.
Ithink Iam the closestresidentialowner near the proposed parkinglot.
Since the beach there Isone of the best inthe world, no matter how much additionalparkingisprovided,itwillnever be
enough.
Rightnow the Mana KaiHomeowners Associationpaysforthe portabletoiletsatthe entrance and fortheir
cleaning.Sometimes the securityfrom the Mana Kaidealswith the lots.The new lotiseven furtheraway and willbe
more difficultto patrol.
Additionally,the Mana Kaipays forand maintainslawn care,tree care, shower, and trash containers includingrecycling
and sweeps,and picksup littereven though thisisstate property.
However, ifthisisdone, these are some additionalissuesthat should be considered:
Water Erosion
Rightnow water runofftothe beach from upcountryflowsthrough the existinggravellotsto the lawn area and out to
the ocean alongthe path peopletakefrom the parkinglotsto the beach. When itrainsa smalllakeforms. A water
management program should be put Intoplaceto mitigatethis.
Noise
The two lotsforparking(Alongthe Mana Kaiaccessroad and the Ocean FrontInnlot)arecurrentlygravelwhich creates
a lotof noiseto interruptsleepingespeciallylatea nightor very earlyinthe morning. Ihave been woken many times
from cartrafficand partiesinthose lots.
There shouldbe noisemitigationmeasures undertaken,perhaps paving,perhapstime limitson using,perhapsincreased
Policepatrols.
Foot Access
Rightnow the footpathfrom the lotsto the beach isoverstressed.The grasshas been worn through due to trafficand
atthe exactbeach accessisbut a sandy drop-offwhich isdangerous. Thispath and accessshouldbe improved priorto
Increasedparkinglikeother accesspointsto thisbeach from publiclotssouth of thislocation.
Rats
A few years ago when some of the same areas were cleared,the residentratstook up homes inthe basement ofthe
Mana Kaiincludingmy storagelocker.Before any clearingoccurs some kindof ratcontrolshould be implemented.
1
Immediate Need
Both restaurants at the Mana Kai and the Ocean Inn Iunderstand are closedso parkingpressurefrom itIscurrently
missing.
Consideration
Sincethe additionof 50 more parkingspaces say turningover three timesa day and with an average of fourpeople per
vehiclewillincreasetrafficby 600 round tripsperhapsthe County shouldconsidercompensatingthe Mana Kai
Homeowners Association for itsincreased costs of lawn maintenance, beach access maintenance, tree care,shower
maintenance,trashcollectionand disposal,and securitypatroisiftheCounty does notprovide?
Iestimatethe new lotwillincreasethe use pressureby about 40% of the currentsituation.
Mahalo foryour consideration.
David Fradin,Owner High Tech Condo Rentalon Maui!
Email: dave@mauimanakai.com
Web Site:http://www.mauimanakai.com
Ceil:408-892-5025
To findactivitiesto do when you go to Maui, go to:http://www.mauiactivitiestodo.com/
St:
2
TO THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL:
RE: July 1,2022 Meeting on Committee Report No. 22-47.
Iwaited 4 hours totestifyand could not wait due to anotherappointment so am submittingmy
testimony inwriting.
From priortestimonythismorning, theremay be some amendments being consideredand I
would liketo suggestchanges tothecurrentbill21 to exempt eventsthatareof a short-term
nature.
Iam representingthetwenty-yearoldMaui MatsuriFestivalwhich issponsoredby theJapanese
CulturalSocietyof Maui and isusuallyheldon two eveningsattheUH Maui College. We rent
tower lightsforsecurityand safetytoilluminateparkinglotsand pathways tothem. We alsouse
stringlightsaround our temporarymusician’stower structureforilluminatingtheobon dancing
area.
Secondarily,Iam partof Maui Taiko and we performat allthe obon dances on the island.
Each templeusesvarioustemporarylightingfortheirneeds which areprimarilyforsecurityand
safety.The obon istraditionallyenjoyedby many kupuna and familieswith young childrenso it
isimportanttokeep them safe.Fallingfora seniorisnormally themost common way fortheir
healthtodeteriorateso helpingthem toseepathsand dancing areasisimportant.
Obon hasbeen on Maui forovera hundredyearsand has occurredduringthe eveningswith the
ambiance of chochinstringlights.Thisbillwould greatlyaffectthetraditionalelement of the
yearlyeventson theislandifnon-profitscannotmake largefinancialinvestmentsintonew
lighting.These organizationsarestillrecoveringfinanciallyfrom thepandemic.
May Isuggestthateventsthatonlyuse lightingfora limitedperiodof time be exempt from these
rules.The Maui Matsurionlyoccurson two eveningsand lightswould be turned on for4 hours
on each night.The temple obons arealsointhiscategorywith some temples having obon on one
nightand othershavingitfortwo nights.Assuming thatthereisan averageof 11 hours of
darknesseach day,thatcalculatesto4000 hours of darknessina year. Eighthours of lightingfor
these events is 0.2% of the total darkness times. Please consideran exemption forfestivalsand
eventsthatoccuronlyduringa shortperiodof time during darkness.
Kay Fukumoto
Maui Matsuri Co-Chair for
Japanese CulturalSocietyof Maui
Maui Taiko President
Kiuuuipilli l-iUKl Mciniij^c'mc'MiCorp.
275 l.ahainaluna R<mJ » l.jhjina. Maui, Ml %761 > r;(H08)661-9652● /:(808)667-965S● www.Kaanapjlil.jnJ.conn
II ■ ■ ■ .
Frftmmf imr iptrtl.
June 30, 2022
Maui County Council Members
Kalana 0 Maui Building,8th floor
200 S.High St.
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Amendment to Resolution 22-119, CDl, Proposing a Charter Amendment to Create a
Water Authority,
Kaanapali Land Management Corp Written Testimony
RE:
Dear Council Chair Alice L.Lee and Council Members,
On behalfof Kaanapali Land Management Corp Irespectfullyrequest that the Councilpostpone any approval
of Resolution22-119,CDl, proposinga Charteramendment to createa Water Authority.
What isthe reason forthisvery sudden request to consider a Countywide Water Authority? Itis
unreasonable to add changes of such significanceto the Charter amendment at such a latedate,without
proper financialanalysisrelatedto the costsassociatedwith the Countywide Water Authorityand who will
ultimatelypay these costs (most likelythe end user),and without discussionand inputfrom those directly
impacted. Itseems quitecontradictoryto good government practices.
The unintended consequence of thisactionhas the potentialto resultinsignificant,unnecessary, increased
costs,reduced operating,deliveryand storage efficiencies,costlylegalproceedings and the Water Authority
absorbing liabilitiesthat have not yet been studied. Any such consequences would be cumulative to the
burdens already placed on our strugglingcommunity, and another reason why many of our localfamiliesand
young professionalsseek employment and lifeopportunitiesoutside of Maui.
The consequences of rushingto get thiswrong islikelyto yielda greaterdetriment than the time allocatedto
properly study and vet thisaction with allstakeholders.
Respectfullysubmitted.
Chad Fukunaga
Vice President
Kaanapali Land Management Corp
RECEIVED □ o n
a e ■
H ■ B
1
2Sn JUN 30 PH 3: 27 HAWAII HOTEL
ALLIANCEJune 30,2022
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Gerard C. Gibson
President
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The HonorableKeani Rawlins-Femandez,Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building
200 South High Street,8thFloor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
RE: HawaiiHotelAllianceOppositiontoBill21,CDl (2022)
Aloha ChairLee,Vice-ChairRawlins-Femandez and Members of theCounty Council,
Mahalo forthisopportunitytoprovidetestimonyinadvanceoftheCountyCouncil’sJune21,2022
meeting.Maui’slodgingindustryisdeeplycommittedtoitsstewardshiproleforthelocalenvironment—
includingtheprotectionofHawaii’snativeseabirdspecies—butifenactedBill21,CDl’s outdoor
lightingfixturerequirementswould imposeimpractical,ambiguousand unsaferequirementson
businesses(andresidents)throughouttheCountywhichmn countertotheguidanceofstateand federal
agency expertsinthisspace.
For the reasonsour testimonywillexpand upon below,theHawaii HotelAlliancemust regretfully
oppose Bill 21. CDl.
Bill21.CDl ConflictswithPrevailingExpertOpinion:
Stateand federalagencieswithexpertiseon what constitutesappropriatemeasurestoprotectendangered
seabirdshavedevelopedcorrespondinglightminimizationguidelines.Importantly,theseguidelineswere
includedinAppendixE totheKauaiSeabirdHabitatConservationPlan(KSHCP,orPIan)‘—aPlan
preparedin2020 by theU.S.Fishand WildlifeService(USFWS) andtheHawaiiDepartmentofLand
and NaturalResources(DLNR). ThisAppendix includesrequirementsrelatingtotheplacement,angling
and shieldingof lights,aswellas otherkey lightingmitigationmeasures.At thetimetheKSHCP was
prepared,severalgroupsaskedtheagenciestoalsoimposelightspectrumrequirementssimilartothose
found inBill21,CDl. Itisimportanttounderscoretheexpertsattheseagenciesdeclinedtodo so.
Bill 21. CDl Ignores Established Safety Parameters:
The wellbeingofourlodgingguestsand employeesalikeisoftheutmostimportance,andsomethingthat
shouldnotbeundulycompromisedinanythingadoptedby theCountyviaBill21,CDl.Therearehuman
safetybenefitsof lightswithshorterwavelengths,includingthattheycreategreatercontrastandenhance
^See Attachment,"KSHCPAppendixE:
9359103.1
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Page 2
peripheralvision—yetBill21,CDl does not properlyaccountforthiscriticaldynamic.Conversely,
recognitionofhuman safetyneedsispresentwithinstateand federalagencylightminimizationguidelines
forprotectingendangeredseabirds,and theKSHCP itselfrequiresappropriatelightinglevelstipulations
forparticularlightfunctions—recognizingthestandardspreparedby theIlluminatingEngineering
SocietyofNorthAmerica (lESNA). More specifically,thelESNA standardsprovidelightlevel
recommendationsforseveralapplications,includingparkinglots,walkways and roads—again,something
forwhich Bill21,CDl doesnotproperlyaccount.The County shouldnotbe requiringlightlevelsbe less
thantheserecognizedand patternedilluminationstandardsforhuman safety,which Bill21,CDl would
concemingly do.
Exacerbatingtheseconcerns isthefactthatBill21,CDl would newly applyitsprovisionsto
"[tjemporcayhoteland condominium beachsecuritylighting"and "[sjafetyand securitylightingfor
waterfeatures,"which were previouslyexempt inbroadscope.Thiscouldincreasesafetyhazardsfor
hotelguestsand make itimpossibleforsecuritystafftoimplementsafetyorsecuritylightingattheir
hotelsand resorts,even temporarilytoresolvepressingsafetymatters.
Bill 21. CDl Contains Unworkable. Unsubstantiated Provisions:
A criticalrequirementwithinBill21,CDl would be thatalloutdoorlightingfixturesmust "limitshort
wavelengthcontenttono more thantwopercentofbluelightcontent"(with"bluelightcontent"defined
as "theratiooftheamount of energyemittedby theoutdoorlightfixturebetween400 and 500 nm divided
by theamount ofenergybetween400 and 700 nm ").Such a standardwould be impossibleformost—if
not all—residents and businesses to adhere to.
The shortwavelengthcontentmeasurementspecifiedinBill21,CDl isnotsomethingthatistypically
providedby lightbulband fixturemanufacturers,norisitincludedon thelabelsfortheirproducts,so one
would be unabletodetermineifnew lightstheypurchaseeffectivelycomply withthelaw.Most
businessesand residentslacktheequipmentand expertisethatwould be necessarytoperformthe
calculationsnecessarytodeterminecompliance,allwhilestateand federalagencieshave yettodetermine
ifthereisscientificsupporttosuggestthisrequirementisbeneficialforseabirds.Stateand federal
agenciesknowledgeableaboutendangeredseabirdprotectionhave notrecommended adoptingthisforall
outdoorlighting,which means Bill21,CDl isagaina troublingoutlier.
Moreover,requiringall(exceptneon) outdoorlightstobe filteredlightemittingdiodebulbs(LEDs) is
concerningon added grounds,as LED filtersarenotcommonly usedand arenotwidelyavailable.Perthe
County’sDeputyCorporationCounsel,^thereisonlyone vendor who arguablysellssuch filters,yet
every outdoorlightintheCounty would requireone—presenting costtrepidations,supplyanxieties,and
even worriesoversucha productvoidinglightmanufacturerwarrantiesgiventhisalterationof intended
use.Allfora practiceoutsideofwhat expertswould constituteas necessary.
Further,Bill21, CDl would takeeffectimmediatelyforallnew or newly replacedlightingfixtures,and
provideonlya three-yeargraceperiodforexistingfixtures.Given thenumerous compliancechallenges
present,thiswould createimmediatedifficultiesforbusinessessuch as hotelsand resortswith large
^See Memorandum, "Ordinanceon ProtectingSeabirdsfrom Outdoor LightingBillNo. 21 CDl (2022)"{May 24,
2022).
Page 2 of 3
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The HonorableKeani Rawlins-Femandez,Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Page 3
numbers of outdoorlightingfixtures.And even a three-yearperiodmay notbeenoughtimetocomply,
particularlywithstipulationslikethoseforbluelightcontentandfilteringthatarestymiedby present
manufacturerspecificationsand availabilities.
Concluding Remarks:
In sum, thelodgingindustryon Maui issteadfastlycommittedtoprotectingHawaii’snativeseabird
species,includingby minimizinglighting.When one minimizeslightingthough,itisalsoimportantthat
human safety—^namelythesafetyofourguestsand employees—isnotcompromised,especiallywith
impracticaland burdensomerequirementsthatdo notholddemonstrated,expert-validatedbenefits.
Bill21,CDl issimply nota sensibleapproach totheimportant protectionofHawaii’s native
seabirds,especiallygiventhatalternativeoptionsare available.One logicaloptionwould be forMaui
toadoptrequirementssimilartothoseincludedintheKSHCP’s Appendix E, which reflectsmindful
policiesestablishedby subject-matterexpertsfrom USFWS and DLNR. Anotheroptionwould be to
imposea correlatedcolortemperaturerequirement,astheStateimposeson itsown agencies(this
measurementistypicallyincludedon LED lightbulblabels).^Any new requirementsshouldalso
preserveexistingexemptionsand allowenough leadtimeforcompliance.
For the many reasonsarticulatedinour testimony,theHawaii HotelAllianceurgestheCounty
Council to rejectBill21,CDl and insteadpursue an alternativeconservationpathway.Without
suchaction,therisksand harmsbroughtaboutby Bill21,GDI’s requirements—^toresidents,businesses,
guestsand more—will greatlyexceedany benefitthatmay possiblybe attained.
Mahalo Nui Loa,
Gerard C. Gibson
President
Hawai'i Hotel Alliance
^See Hawaii Revised Statutes Section 201-8.5.
Page 3 of 3
APPENDIX E;GuidelinesforAdjusting Lightingat Facilities
1. GuidelinesforAdjustingLightingat Facilities
Thisappendixprovidesdetailedguidelinesto informminimizationmeasures that can be
customizedtoaddressan arrayofpossiblelightingissuesatParticipantfacilities.A lighting
minimizationplan to achievethe maximum extent practicablewillbe includedineach
ParticipantPIP.
These guidelinesrepresentbestavailablescienceatthe time of KSHCP permit issuance.Over
the lifethe plan,likelynew informationand new technologieswillbe available,and this
appendix may be updated accordingly.
Not alllightingguidelinesare appropriateforalltypes of facilities.Some representlong term,
infrastructuresolutions,and othersmay be implemented on a seasonal basis.
1.1.DeactivateNon-EssentialLights
Prioritizationof seabirdand honu tightattractionminimizationmeasures involvesevaluating
lightneeds to determine ifnon-essentiallightscan be deactivatedduring the seabirdfallout
season (September 15 to December 15) and turtlenestingseason (May 15-December 15).
Deactivatingthe lightsavoidsthe potentialforlightattractionthat those lightscould otherwise
cause. Turning offa subset of lights,both unshieldedand shielded,duringthe falloutseason
(September 15 to December 15) can assistwith minimizingthe riskof seabirdlightattraction,if
those lightsare not necessary.IntheirPIPs,Applicantsmust providerationaleforany facility
lightsthatcannotbe deactivatedduringseabirdfalloutseason,and detailwhat other
minimizationpracticeswillbe implemented on lightsthatwillremain illuminated.The
regulatoryagencieswillreview the evaluationand justificationas provided inapplicantPIPs.
Similarly,turningout lightsthatshine directlyon beaches duringthe turtlenestingseason (May
15-December 15) can prevent hatchlingdisorientation.Avoid use ofthe followinglamp styles
on beachsideor shore perpendicularto sidesofa structure:privatebalconylights,up lights;
decorativelighting,not necessaryforhuman safetyor security;pond lights;and beach lighting.
Timers or other similar devices should be used to ensure the selected lightsremain offduring
the turtlenestingseason. This measure may requirethe installationof independent light
switches. Conversely,to prevent accidentalactivation,lightfixturescan be removed forlights
that willno longerbe needed at a facility.
1.2.InstallFullCut-offLightFixtures
A fullcut-offfixturerefersto a lightfixturewhich thatdoes not shinelightabove a 90 degree
horizontalplane. For lightsnecessaryto be activated,fullcut-offfixturesprovidean effective
measure to achievelightminimizationbecause they preventlightfrom shiningdirectlyupward.
These typesof lightshouse the lightbulb up withinthe fixtureso thatno bulbprotrudesbelow
(Figure1). Such fixturesmust be mounted at appropriateangleso they pointdirectlydown to
the ground. Many lightmanufacturersprovidelightfixtureinformationalongwiththe light
specificationsto indicateIfa fixtureisa fullcut-offdesign.The InternationalDarkSky
Association(www.darksky.org)isa good sourceforinformationon fullcut-offlightsand
provides additionalreferencesto lightengineering resources and lightmanufactures.
Figure1: Examples of fullcut-offlightfixtures.Source:www.darkskv.org.
Along shorelines,exteriorfixtureson the seaward (makal)and the shoreperpendicularsidesof
the building(andon the landwardsideofthe buildingifthey are visiblefrom the beach) should
be down-litfixtures,fullyshieldedand fullcut-off,louvered,or recessed fixturesthat do not
have reflectiveinner surfaces. These fixtures should use low wattage bulbs (e.g.,<50w). All
exteriorfixtureson the landward (mauka) sideof the buildingshould be directeddownward
only (Witherington& Martin 2003).
1.3.ShieldingLightFixtures
This minimization measure aims to achieve the functional equivalentof a fullcut-offlight
fixtureby installinga shield,visor,hood or similaron an existinglightfixtureto prevent light
from shiningupward and reducingtrespass.Inadditionto the shielding,to achieve the
functionalequivalentof a fullcut-offfixture,a lightfixtureshould be adjustedso that itpoints
directlydown perpendicularto the ground to createa level,horizontalplane between the
fixtureand the ground, and have the bulb housed within the lightfixture(Figures2 & 3). Reed
etal.(1985)suggestthatinareaswhere otherlightsourcesarerare,theshieldingofprincipal
lightswould likelyhave a largereffectindecreasingseabirdlightattraction.
Figure2: Installationof an appropriatelysizedfloodlightshield.Source:www.darkskv.org.
Shtsided Floodlight
Standard Floodlight
<51
Figure3: Before and aftereffectsof shieldingand lightmanagement designed to minimize light
attractionriskto seabirdsand to decrease lightpollution.Source: www.darkskv.org.
1.4.Angle Lights Downward
Angling and repositioninglightspresentsa potentialalternativeto shieldingor replacinglight
fixturesand may be sufficientto make lightsfullycut-offand eliminatelightshininghorizontally
and vertically(Figure4). To achieve the functionalequivalentofa fullcut-offfixture,a light
fixtureshould be adjustedso thatitpointsdirectlydown perpendicularto the ground to create
a level,horizontalplane between the fixtureand the ground, and have the bulb housed within
the lightfixture.Tree strap downlights may be used to minimize seabird lightattractionunless
turtlesmay be present on the adjacent beach.
"4
Figure1-: (a)Wall mount cylinderdown-light,(b)bollardswith downward-directed louvers,and (c)
sign lightsangled downward. From
http://mvf\A/c.com/media/418417/5eaTurtie LightingGuidelines.pdf(FWC 2011).
1.5.Place LightsUnder Eaves
Lightfixturesplaced under buildingeaves can achievethe functionalequivalentof a fullcut-off
fixture.The architecturaleave actsas shieldto prevent lightfrom shiningdirectlyupward.
1.6.ShiftLightingAccording to the Moon Phase
This minimizationmeasure addresses lightingforwhich the need, or purpose, forthe lighting
can be shiftedIntiming each year to coincidewith the moon phase. Because a reductionin
lightattractionhas been correlatedwith the fullphase of the moon (Reed et al.1985; Telferet
al.1987) lightsforessentialfunctions,and forwhich that functioncan be shiftedintiming,
should coincidewith the fullphase of the moon and avoid the dark phase of the moon. Itis
important to note that a fullmoon that isobscured by heavy cloud cover could simulate the
dark phase ofthe moon. By not activatingthose lightsduring the dark phase of the moon the
effectof those lightsisreduced. Examples of activitiesthat could be minimized with this
measure includeschedulingof nighttime events,such as festivalsor sportingevents.
1.7.InstallMotion Sensors for Motion-activated Lighting
Motion sensors switch lightson only when triggered,thereby limitingthe time thatthe light
stays on and reducing itspotentialfor seabird lightattraction.Ifa sensor lightisrequired for
securitypurposes, the lightequipped with the sensor should be at low lightlevels.For
example. LightEmittingDiode (LED)streetlightsand parking lotlightscan be activatedwhen
needed and dim when no activityisdetected nearby. However for those fixtures,fullcut-off
designs or the functionalequivalentsare recommended because of the possibilityof light
attractionoccurring when the motion-sensor lightisactivated or in the event that the motion
sensor equipment malfunctions and the lightremains on.
Where motion sensors are impractical(eg at sportingevents),stadiumlightsshouldbe turned
offas soon as the publicleaves the stadium.
1.8.Decrease LightingLevels
Thismeasure addressesloweringlightintensitylevels(e.g.,measured Inlumens)whilestill
meeting the need to safelycomplete tasksand servethe purpose ofthe light.Guidance on
standards forthe appropriatelightinglevelfora particularlightfunctionshould be followedas
providedby the appropriateagencyor professionaland technicalorganization.For example
the IlluminatingEngineeringSocietyof North America (lESNA)providesrecommendations for
lightlevelsforseveralapplicationsincludingparkinglots,walkways, and roads. Inaddition
individualentitiesmay have standards and best practicesforlightingneeds.
For many applicationswhere lightingisneeded, brighterlightingmay not always providethe
best lightingforthe needed function.Itisoftenthe case where reduced lightinglevelscan
provideforthe needed functionofthe lighting.For example, forsecuritypurposes overly
brightlightstend to createblindspots,or very darkshadows, outsidethe litarea that preclude
effectivevisibility.Well placed,but reduced lightingcan providefor more effectivesecurity.
Therefore,when Participantsseek to enhance onsitevisibilityforsecurity,while reducing riskto
seabirds,the appropriatereductionof lightlevels(alongwith shieldingand re-anglinglights)
forms a startingpointto accomplish both purposes.
1.9.Decrease Visibilityof InteriorLights
Facilitieswith largeand/or numerous windows, tallbuildingprofiles,or largeglassfacadesmay
alsopose a riskof lightattractionto Covered Seabirdson Kauai. The followingmeasures are
based, in part,on effortsin citiesinCanada and the mainland USA to decrease harmful effects
of buildingson birdsand applyto seabirdsinthatthey can decreasethe amount of light
escapingfrom withinbuildings(CityofToronto 2007; Evans Ogden 2002):
Installscreensor shadesoverlargewindows thatarelowered nightlyduringthe fallout
season;
fviodifybuildingsand decrease or eliminate lightglow from withina facility;
Create glassopacityto prevent the escape of Internallight.Tinted glassor filmwith a
visiblelighttransmittancevalue of 45 percent or lessshould be appliedto allwindows
and doors withinlineof sightof the beach;
Installphysicalscreensoutsidea building;
InstalllandscapingInfrontof largewindows;
Close allwindow blindsafterdaylighthours untilsunrise;
Stagger the operation of lightsInthe evening or morning hours so that not alllightsare
turned on at once; and
Maximize the number of offices or indoor rooms that turn offalllightsaftersunset;
● Placereminder noticeson switchesto turn out lightsordraw curtains/blindsin
oceanfront rooms. This should include coastalareas thatareon theperpendicularsides
of the structure;
Turn offroom and lanailightingthatare not needed;
b. Relocatemoveable lamps away from windows thatarevisiblefromthebeach;
a.
and
Closeopaquecurtainsorblindsafterdarktoblockinsidelightfromshining
outside.
c.
1.10.Use Light*lessTechnologies
Where conditionsand facilityneedspermit,technologiesthatdo notuselight,suchasclosed-
circuittelevision(CCT)withinfraredilluminators,maybeeffectivelyemployedto"see"atnight
thusenablingsome ofthelightstobeturnedoff.Forexample,anyfencedareasorthedark
sidesof facilitiescan be monitored with CCT so thatlightsdonotneedtobeusedorinstalled.
1.11.PlantVegetationAround Lightsto Reduce LightVisibility
Treesand shrubscanbe plantedsothattheyover-archlightsorshieldsidevisibilityoflights
alongthecoastoralonga ridge,forexample.Whetherthelightsaremountedon20-footpoles,
walkways,orwithinlandscapedareas,havingadjacentoroverarchingvegetationwouldfurther
reduce the riskofseabirdlightattractionthatany residuallightscattermay pose.Long-term
planningand maintenanceofscreeningvegetationisencouraged,whereappropriatetothe
uses and needs of the affectedlights.
1.12.Lower Height of Lights
Lightthatislow inheighthaspotentialtoreducetheeffectoflightattractionbecauselower
lightsmay be lessvisibleto passingseabirds.Installingground-levellighting,suchasalong
walkways,and reducingpoleheightcan decreaselightwaste and trespass.
1.13.Use Longer LightWavelengths
Incoastalareas,use of acceptablelightssuch as:LPS 18w, 35w, red,orangeoramber LEDs
(truered,orange or amber diodes,but not filters),truered neon,and otherlightingsources
thatproduce lightwavelengths of560 nm or longer(Witheringtonetal.2014).Long
wavelength lights,e.g.,those thatproduce lightthatmeasures greaterthan 560 nanometers on
a spectroscope,are requiredforallconstructionvisiblefrom and adjacent to sea turtlenesting
beaches. Turtlesare most sensitiveto shortwavelengths of light,probablybecause they livein
a marine environment that filtersout long wavelengths.Green turtlesare leastattractedto
longerwavelength lightInthe yellow-orangeto red end of the spectrum (630 to 700 nm)
(Witheringtonand Martin2000). inthe absence of other lightsources,however, turtlesmay
stillbe attractedto longwavelength light.
Filtersdesignedto excludetransmissionof shortwavelengths (<570nm) can be fittedto high
pressuresodium (HPS)vapor lights.Such filtershave been found to be effectiveatavoiding
disruptionof nestingfemales (Salmon, 2006) but even filteredHPS lighthas been found to
attracthatchlings,althoughnot as stronglyas unfilteredHPS lights(Sellaet al,2006). Filtering
alone isthus not sufficientto avoid attraction and disruptionof hatchlingorientation.Bright
white lightfixtures,such as metal halide,halogen,fluorescent,mercury vaporand incandescent
lamps,are not approved forbeachsideor shore perpendicularsidesofa structure.Limiteduse
of shorterwavelength lightsmay be approved inareaswhere directand indirectlightor glow
couldnot possiblybe visiblefrom the beach due to installationofopaque "lightfencing"(see
below).
From:
Sent
Tara Grace <taragrace808@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 11:38AM
County Clerk
Upcountry Water
RECtIVED
ro JUM29 AHII:III
OF the
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom:taragrace808@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
P/easesupportthecreationoftheMaui Community Water Authority
Mahalo
Tara Grace
808.870.1006
1
Count^lerk
Steveg <steveg0606@gmail.com>
Wednesday,June 29,2022 9:36AM
County Clerk
EastMaui and Upcountry water
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom steveg0606@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Hello,
Iwould liketo add my voice to the many who support establishinga county-widecommunity waterauthority.Fortoo
long largecorporations,such as Mahi Pono, have had too much sway indistributionand useofourwater resources.Too
much water that could be used by upcountry formers and residentsisbeingdivertedordumped tosuittheneedsofa
corporate few.
Iimploreyou to helpcreatethe Maui County Community Water Authority.
Sincerely,
Steve Grimes
OO 73
mC3! oro
fft m●o
-<
O <o
« oui
-4
1
Dear Councilmembers,
Irepresent Lahaina Jodo Mission and have questions about ho\A/thisbillwould affectthe
lightingfor our Bon Dances, which isa traditionalreligiousobservance that has been held in
Hawaii for over a hundred years.Each temple on Maui organizes a Bon Dance on one or two
nightseach weekend from about 6:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. fora period of two and a halfmonths.
We appreciatewhat the ordinance istryingto accomplish to protectour naturalenvironment
and sensitivespecies.Our question iswhether changing our Bon Dance lightingwillreallyhelp
native birdsand sea life.Ifitdoes, how do we change our lighting?As you may know, most of
our lightingisalready filteredbecause itiscovered with paper and/or plasticchochin lanterns
and our wiringisdone allunder the supervisionof a professionalelectrician.
We do care about protectingendangered species,nativebirds,and sea lifebut perhaps it
makes more sense to address permanent lightfixturesthat likelyhave a largerimpact on these
creatures and the natural environment.
Ifthe billpasses,may we request formore and specificdetailson what kindof lightingto use
and how to implement these lighting.
Respectfully,
Maya Hara
II
Lahaina Jodo Mission Bon Dance, Lightingcovered with lanterns
Count^leHc RRiCEi'iTD
M JUM30 7:56Alexa Hatton <alexahatton33@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 5:11PM
County Clerk
SupportforMaui community waterauthority
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFiee OF THE
BOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom alexahatton33@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupport the creationof theMaui Community Water Authority.
Mahalo, Alexa Hatton
1670 Olinda Rd
Makawao, HI
Sent from my iPhone
i
RECEIVEDCountj^jerk
mi JUH 30 ffl7-56Ralph Hendrickson <write-maul@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 10:46PM
County Clerk
Maui Community Water Authority...
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom write-maui@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupport the creationof the Maui Community Water Authority!
Ralph Hendrickson
P.0, Box331
Kihei,HI 96753
Sent from my IPad
1
Count^lerk
BethHird<bethpaints@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 9:50AM
County Clerk
Creationof the Maui Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don’toftengetemailfrom belhpaints@gmai!.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupport the creationof theMaui Community Water Authority!
Elizabeth Hird
14 KupalaikiLoop
Kihei, HI 96753
CO 73O-n mC.3 O
mTTt -«o
-<
G
m
O73?. \jJ
1
Count^^Ie^
Sarah Hofstadter <skhof@comcastnet>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 12:46PM
County Clerk
Resolution22-119,7/1/22Agenda ItemsCa2-151 and CR22-56
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject
You don'toftengetemailfrom skhof@comcastnet Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha.Iam writingtoexpressmy supportforcreatinga county-wideCommunity Water Authority,
as proposed by CouncilMember Sinenci,or ata minimum, an EastMaui Community Water
Authority,as originallyproposedby theGREAT Committee.
Freshwaterisa criticalnecessityforhuman life,foragriculture,and forour islands'ecosystems.Itis
considereda publictrustunder Hawai'ilaw.Itshould be managed by thecommunity forthebenefit
ofeveryone,notby a privateentityforprofit.Our existingprivatelyheldwatercapture,storage,and
distributionsystemsarevestigesofthecolonialplantationera.
Itiswellpasttimetoestablishpublicownership and controlofthisfinite,infinitelyvaluable
resource,so thatourlimitedwatersupplycanbe sharedequitablyinthepublicinterest,and our
infrastructurecan be upgraded tobetterhandlethedroughts and floodsthatarelikelytoincreasein
frequencyand severityasclimatechangeintensifies.
Iurge theCouncil toallow Maui's voterstoestablisha county-wideCommunity Water Authority,or,
ata minimum, an EastMaui Community Water Authoritythatcan acttopreventtheEastMaui water
system from remaininginprivatehands fortheforeseeablefuture.
Respectfully,
Sarah K. Hofstadter
Kihei resident
OO
O “n :o
^ mC“n
25 o
^rn ro
rnoo "n
m
;sx O\ji
CK
1
Count^jerk
Waikiki- HawaiiCondo <hawaiicondo@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 1:50PM
County Clerk
TestimonyinSupportofa Maui CountyCommunity Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don’toftengetemailfrom hawailcondo@yahoo.com.learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha. As someone who liveson O’ahu where the island'sprimarysole-sourceaquifer
has been atthe mercy and under controlby an omnipotent and deceitfulentityfor
decades, Iam writingfrom personal understanding of how importantitisforresidents
to have control of the most valuable resource.
The creationofthe Maui County Community Water Authorityisthe fairestway for
decisionsto be made about the county'swater. Please approve this charter
amendment
Kim Jorgensen
Waikiki
oo
mcTi
zo olO
mo
<
o <3O -n m
om
lO
1
Count^CleiJ< Rlr'lMilVbU
2KZJUL-I Aft7:q7
From:
Sent:
carolleekamekona <hynmahi@yahoo.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 10:59PM
County Clerk
East Maui
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THfi
COUNTY CLERK
[Youdon'toftengetemailfrom hynmahi@yahoo.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha e Kathy!
ThisisCarolLee Kamekona. Iam nota paidlobbyist.
Iam writinginsupport of establishinga Maui County Community Water Authority.
Mahalol
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^£lerk KEClIVCD'-
2022Jli-I AH 7:47
Mia Sado-Magbual <mauiwahine54@gmail.com>
Friday,July1,2022 6:22AM
County Clerk
cc 22-151 &cr 22-56
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom mauiwahine54@gmail.com. Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee & CouncilMembers,
My name isMia Kaulana Sado-Magbual and 1am Infullsupport of establishinga Maui County Community Water
Authorityand an EastMaui Community RegionalBoard and Isupport puttingiton the ballotto letthe peopledecide.
It'sbeen too longthatour water has been run by outsidePrivateCorporationsor
Ido not wish to see a PrivateForeignInvestment company decidingwhere our water goes or make up your own.
Mahalo,
Mia Kaulana
1
Count^leHc RFTFTWnMary L Keller<islandharpist@comcast.net>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 1:37PM
County Clerk
Pleasesupport the Maui Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
mi JUM 29 PH 25To:
Subject:
OFFIGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[Youdon'toftengetemailfrom islandharpist@comcast.net.Learn why thisisImportantat
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Ibelieveit'svitallyimportantto supportthe creationof the Maul Community Water Authority.Iam a residentof Paia
and followthe water issuesclosely.
Thankyoul
Mary Keller
41 Meha Place
Paia, HI 96779
1
Count^Clerk
Toni Lawson <tonialawson.esq@gmail.com>
Wednesday,June 29,2022 10:03AM
County Clerk
Maui countywaterauthority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[Youdon'toftenget emailfrom tonlalawson.esq@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportantat
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Iam a residentof maui county and am kanaka maoli. ForwhateverreasonthewaterinMaul hasbeenterribly
mismanaged and priorityhas been givento outsidersand nottheindigenouspeople.Additionallyandshamefully
consideration of sustainable use of the water isnot taken into account.
Isupporthavinga maui county water authorityto helpcorrectthewatersituation.Waterislife.Ourwaterisnot
unlimitedunlessyou have a way we can drinkocean waterthatisalsobeingcontaminatedbygreedyIgnorantpeople.
Sent from my IPhone
OO
C.21
50
73
m
oto
m●o
OO -n
m
7: {T1
oW
●O
1
Count^le^ KbUtIVhU
kathydeelewls@gmail.com
Thursday,June 30,2022 8:10AM
County Clerk
Supportthe Maui County Community Water Authority
From:
Sent: 2827JUN 30 AH 8: 14To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom kathydeelewis@gmall.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
lAloha-
Ihave farmed my land in Peahl/Haiku for37 years.
Isupportthishistoriccharteramendment thatcreatesa Maui County Community Water
Authority to manage East Maui stream waters - and eventuallyotheroldplantationsystems - forthe
benefitof our localfarmers, kuleana users,residents,and watersheds!!!
It’sabout time!!
Kathy Lewis
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^le^ RFrii^lUED
SuzetteMarlowe <suzettemarlowe@gmalt.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 2:15PM
County Clerk
Maui Community Water Authority
From:
Sent: ZB2ZM29 PH » il9
To:
Subject: OFFIGE GF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don’toftengetemailfrom suzettemarlowe@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Please support the creationof the Maui Community Water Authority
Sincerely,
Suzette Marlowe
P.O. Box 593
Kula, HI 96790
suzettemarlowefS),Qmail.com
1
Count^CleHc
202?JUN 30 AM 8=<J8Matt McDonald <mattmcdon@gmaii.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 8:47AM
County Clerk
TestimonyInSupportofMaui CountyWaterAuthority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OFFIQE CDF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom mattmcdon@gmaii.com. Leamwhv thisisimportant
Dear Council Members,
1write to stronglyurge you to support the creationofthe Maui County Community Water Authority.As theyearshave
gone by, Ihave become increasinglyconcerned about our uncertainclimate,privatecontrol,and lackofaccountability
surroundingour watersheds.The County isnot currentlyina positiontounderstandourwater supply,keep it
maintained, investinitsfuture,nor controlitto benefitMaui'scitizenswho are indireneed ofthismost precious
resource -wai. Water is life.
Additionally,our currentsystem of privatewater controlviolatesthe PublicTrustDoctrine,puttingcommercialusers
ahead of conservation,kuleana users,and domestic water supply.Not onlydo you have a moral imperativeto
implement a water supplysystem thatbenefitsour localcommunitiesand wildlifefirst,you have a legalimperativeto
do so.Not creatinga Maui County Community Water Authoritywould furtherdisregardtheHawaiiConstitutionand
locallaws.We are countingon you, as a concerned electorate,to do the obviouslyrightthing,and takethisfirststepto
control our water for the benefit of our local communities, not privateusers{thelargestof which isa foreignpension
fund).
A Maui County Community Water Authoritywould allow usto investinwatershedrestorationand repairsand
maintenance to old wasteful infrastructure,develop transparent,efficient,and culturallyand environmentally
responsiblesystems of management, providelocalJobs inresourcemanagement, and ensurewatersecurityforallof
Maui'scurrentand futureresidents.Regionalcommunity boardsincorporatetheindispensableknowledgefrom local
communities who have an intimateunderstanding of theirwatersheds and water systems.It'sa win foreveryone.
Iam incrediblyconcerned about the alternative- private,corporatecontrolover Public
Trustresourceswith no guarantee of good stewardshipor equitabledistributionof water or water rates.And we see
thisexample on largedisplayinEastMaui - our largestsourceof publicwater.Mahl Pono and PSP arealreadywasting
over halfof theirdailyallocationof 25mgd (statedInpublicrecords)and yettheywant 88mgd guaranteedfor30 years.
The consequences of thisare unthinkable,especiallyas ourcommunity alreadyfacesa stage1 watershortage.Our
County should absolutelybe inthe positionto reduce the water supplyto a non-essentialforeigncorporationwhen
water suppliesare low,ratherthan takingfrom our own community of residents.
The decisionisobvious.We cannot affordto perpetuate the statusquo. Maui County must do betterto ensure the
sustainabilityof our resources,our 'aina,and our communities. Pleasevote to supportthe Maui County Water
Authority.
Thank you and Aloha,
Matt McDonald
808.500.8054
1
Count^Xlerk TTEnnvFn
maria mervis <mar1amervis@me.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 2:58PM
County Clerk
Water
From:
Sent: Z022M29 PH > OaTo:
Subject:
OFFIG-E OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom mariamervis@nne.CQm,Learnwhv thisisimportant
To whom itmay concern,
Pleasesupportthe creationof the Maui Community Water Authority",
Thank you!
Marla mervis-Hartmann
1007 Calasa Drive
Kula,HI 96790
wtww.LoveYourBodyLoveYourself.com
1
Coun^^lerk
Hanna Mounce <mounce@mauiforestbirds.org>
Tuesday,June 28,2022 2:25PM
County Clerk
Supportthe passingof Bill21 CD1 Outdoor LightingOrdinanceforSeabirdProtection
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom mounce@maujforestbirds.org.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers and Chair;
My name isDr.Hanna Mounce. I am the coordinatorof Maul ForestBirdRecoveryProject,the founderof Na
Koa Manu Conservation,a mother, a longtimeresidentof Pukalani,and a localsmallbusinessowner.
I stronglysupport Bill21 CDl, seeking to regulatethe Impactofoutdoorlightingon wildlifeand darkskiesby
requiringoutdoorlightingto be fullyshielded,down directed,mounted as lowtothegroundas possible,and
limitedto 2% bluelightcontent.
Saferlightingisreadilyavailableforbusinessesand thisisa smallchange to make inour human activitiesthat
willmake a bigchange forour nativewildlife.I would liketoensurethatHawaiianseabirdsarestillherefor
my childrenand my grandchildren.Without them, we willnothave the nutrientswe need forourforeststo
flourishand providethe water thathumans alsoso greatlyrelyupon.
Mahaio,
Dr. Hanna L Mounce
Coordinator-Maui ForestBirdRecovery Project
2465 OlindaRoad, Makawao, HI 96768-7138 USA
www.mauiforestbirds.ora C *n
C'TI
Zp”1m
73
m
808-573-0280 MFBRP Office
808-421-7483 Cell
O
00 m-<
oo <-●n
m-i
:ox
mw
aus
VI
1
Ke Welina Mai Nei e ChairLee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Femandez, and Members of theMaui
County Council:
My name isKyle Nakanelua and I am testifyinginsupport of ResolutionNo. 22-119
(2022)with strong reservations.
Iam a Taro farmerfrom themoku o Ko‘olau;theahupua’aof Wailuanui;the‘ilikupono
and makawai ofLakini;fedby thepunawai ofAma‘u and Ka‘akekethroughthekahawaiof
Waiakamilo.Ihave been farmingtarosince1989.My grandparentshavebeenfarmingtaroallof
theirlives,and theirparentsand grandparentsand theirgrandparentsalltheway backtoHaloa.
We have allcared for and fed our ‘ohana from these lands and continue to do so. We
believe that itis essentialto continue our work to careforand protectthesemo‘o (descendants),
‘aina,wairua(spirit)oftheMaui Hikinaareaand allofthenaturaland culturalresourcestheyare
located,especiallyforourhanauna e hikimai ana,our Jfuturegenerations.
Though thisresolutioniswellintendedand a good ideaintheory,my concernisthat
normallywhen thesecriticalitemsgo totheballots,thepoliticalhand takescontroland the
originalintentseems tobe lostinthemaking.In doing so,oftentimes,Kanaka Maoli areshut
outoftheprocessand dismissedfrom havinga seatatthedecisionmakingtable.
We aregratefulthatourlawsaresteepedinHawaii’s uniquepublictrustdoctrinethatis
rootedinKanaka Maoli custom and tradition.We praythatitbe acknowledged and applied
whenever policyisformed and thatthevoicesofancestralknowledge ofthemo‘o from Maui
Hikina,be soughtafter,heard,listenedto,and used to implementrestorativejusticeon the
ground and inour communities.
OO
730"n
> m
Mahalo no. O1
m-<
o
5 <o *n
Kyle K. Nakanelua r~
m
O
RbCEIVED
miM29 PH 12=04
John Naylor<johnnay!or@kula.us>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 11:52AM
County Clerk
Maui County
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK[You don'toftengetemailfrom johnnaylor@kula.us.Learnwhy thisIsImportantat
https://aka.m5/LearnAboutSenderldentiflcation]
Aloha,
(am writingInfullSUPPORT of a Maui County Water Authority.
Nuff said.
John Naylor Makawao
1
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
HELENE KAU
Director
SHAYNE R. AGAWA, P.E.
Deputy Director
BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU. MAUI, HAWAI‘1 96793
www.mauicountv.Qov/water
&
OO 73O-n
fe mCT!
oZo ro
m
3 <
-<
oo -n
June 27, 2022 mm
O;ex
7:m
Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Members ofthe Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Chair Lee and Members:
SUBJECT: RESOLUTION 22-119, PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT TO THE
REVISED CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI (1983), AS
AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH THE EAST MAUI COMMUNITY
WATER AUTHORITY
On June 16, 2022, the Board ofWater Supply unanimously voted to approve this
letterinsupport of Resolution22-119, and to have thischarteramendment placed on the
ballotto letthe people of Maui County decide on the establishmentof the East Maui
Community Water Authority.
Thank you foryour consideration.
Sincerely,
Buddy James Nobriga,Chair
Maui County Board of Water Supply
Michael P. Victorino,Mayor
Sandy Baz, Managing Director
Helene Kau, Director
Shayne Agawa, Deputy Director
cc:
BJN:sco
'(ByWater^d‘THingsTindLife
Count^Gerk ncociVD&
LucreziaOddie <lucreziacreation@gmail.com>
Wednesday,June 29,2022 4:37PM
County Clerk
Supportthe Maui County Community Water Authority
From:
Sent: mi JUN 30 AH 7-55
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom lucreziacreatlon@gmaiI.com.learnwhy thisisimportant
Hello. Iam in favor of this resolution. . ●
Being a 38 year residentof Maui Ihave seen yearsof mismanagement resultingincopiouswaste offreshwater and
diversionsoperated without considerationof residents’and farmers'uses,as wellas wildlifehabitat.Iwould appreciate
your attentionto thisvery important matter of ensuring equitablewater distribution.
Aloha.
Sincerely,
Lucrezia Oddie
Kuiaha stream riparianresident
700 East Kuiaha Road
Haiku, HI.
96708
808-495-0104 (landline)
1
RECEIVEDCount^lerk
im M.-\ AH 7= 47From:
Sent:
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros<rnavisolivelra@gmail.com>
Fridayjuly1,2022 1:59AM
County Clerk
CC 22-151,CR 22-56 & CR 22-57
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject
You don’toftengetemailfrom mavisoliveira@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Chair Lee,Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez & Council Members:
My name IsMavis Oliveira-Medeiros.Iam an employee ofCouncilmanSinenci,but personallyhave alwaysadvocated
for our water.
We know the harm that have been done to our water from especiallythe Plantationera up to the presenttime.
My ohana of fiveare infullsupport of We thinkit'sbeyond time thatthe management of our wai Istaken out of private
forprofitcorporationsor LLC'sand put intoa Water Authorityentityand be put on the ballotforthe peopleto
decide. Insupport of both CC 22-151 & CR 22-56.
We are alsoinsupport of CR 22-57.because Hana needs itsown Planning Commission. We have seen projectsbeing
done & when we callto findout about it,we findthere'sso many exemptions. We found out thatnone of the projects
inthe SMA area has to go through the Hana AdvisoryBoard,so othersare puttingthrough alltheseprojects&
businesses,unbeknownst to Hana. Ifnot exemptions,then there'svariances.Itjustseems likethere'sloopholesfor
everythingifa person reallywants to startsome type of development. Lastbut not least.Community Plansseem to be
ignored.
A privateowner was allowedtodigup theroadhimselftoinstalla largepipetohispropertytosubdivide,noneofthe
neighbors were notifiedto our knowledge. Businessesare springingup allover inAg zoned land below the road (SMA
areas).Two houses are beingbuiltclearlystatingforvacationrentalsinan area where the ocean or a fishpond
surrounds two sides & the ocean has risen so much over the periodfrom when the permit was appliedfor20 years ago,
reallyitshould be re-donebecause of climatechange,the waves at hightideconstantlyentersthe property.
Im justsayingitseems thingsare being builtwithout considerationforthe areas & zoning,etc.Thisneeds to be
changed.
Much mahalo,
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros
PO Box 215
Hana, HI.96713
(808)866-7409
1
RECEIVED
im JUL-! AH 7=49
Testimony of
PacificResource Partnership
Council of the County of K/aui
RegularMeeting
Friday,JulyI,2022
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Re; 1)Amend Resolution22-119,CDl to providethe proposed Water Authoritywithcountywide
jurisdiction;and 2} Resolution22-144,CDl establishplanningcommissions forailcommunity planareas
on Maui, and dissolvethe Maui Planning Commission.
Aloha ChairLee,Vice ChairRawlins-Fernandez,and Members of the Council:
PacificResource Partnershipstronglyopposes 1)Resolution22-119,CDl and 2) Resolution22-144,CDl.
We stronglyoppose Resolution22-119, CDl (proposes a CharterAmendment authorizingthe County to
establisha countywide water authorityand allowforregionalboardsinany relevantareaofMaui County)
forthe followingreasons:
● The Maui Islandwater use and development planadopted by the Councilspecificallystatesunder
exhibitA ofOrdinance5335,on page 270:thata studyshouldbe conductedtostudy"water
system ownershipand management models,such aswaterauthority..."There isno evidence
thata formalstudyby a reputableresearchcompany has been completedto investigateand
analyzethe implementationand impactsof a countywidewater authorityforMaui County.
● Concerned thatthe ratepayerwillbe requiredto pay fora countywide water authorityata time
when Maui residentsare strugglingwith Maui'shighcostof livingand lackofaffordablehousing.
The followingincludessome ofthe coststhatthe ratepayeror Maui residentmay have to pay
for:
o Hiringofstaff,salaries,and fringebenefits:
o Officespace and equipment,
o Maintenance and operationof water systems,
o Upgrades and the rebuildof water systems,
o Potentialacquisitionor condemnation oflandsto retaincontrolofwatersystems
● Itispremature to passthischarteramendment when the rolesand responsibilitiesbetween the
proposed water authorityand Maui's Department of Water Supply areunclear.
As such,we respectfullyrecommend thatthe Councildeferthismeasure.
'..FT OF f'A R I N L H L -I i ●' [ 'wwwEy'frP^HAWAit.eoiM
I O V.VW FAClQOOKLCOK'
PAC!F;CR6WOftCEPART»;CRSHlP
PHONE .> 808,528.5557 nOOAlAKEAS:HrtT/-THH.OO« I Qr-ONOlUUJ'‘1lvV,Si.< '
IWiTTFR
BPRt'HAVVAJI .
(Contiiiued From Page 1)
We stronglyoppose Resolution22-144,CDl (proposesa CharterAmendment establishingplanning
commissionsforallcommunity planareason Maui,and dissolvesthe Maui PlanningCommission)forthe
followingreasons:
The Maui CharterCommission had previouslyincludeda similarproposalintheirJanuary 18,2022 Draft
Report to the Council,which would have eliminatedthe Maui PlanningCommission and replaceditwith
sixnew PlanningCommissions foreach ofthe Community Planareason the islandof Maui; no changes
were proposed for Lanaiand Molokai PlanningCommissions,
o In a January 20,2022 memo to the Charter Commission, the CorporationCounsel identifiedlegaland
practicalissuesto be addressed forthe proposed new PlanningCommissions (See page 5 of memo
dated January 20,2022 attachment)
o The Department ofPlanningsubmittedwrittentestimonyinoppositionand recommended an
alternativeproposalthatthe Maui PlanningCommission be comprised ofatleastone member of
each ofthe Community Planareas.(SeeDepartment of PlanningTestimony dated January 24,2022).
o The CharterCommission'sFinalReportdated February18,2022 includeda versionofthe
Department of Planning-recommended alternative,which would requirethe Maui Planning
Commission to have representationfrom each Maui Community Plandistrict.(See attached).
As such,we respectfullyrecommend thatthe Councildeferthismeasure.
THE PC'lVEn OF PAnTHEFISHIP
Ct
.V
DOREEN CANTO
GRANT CHUN
DAVID DELEON
PAULDESLAURIERS
KAREY KAPOI
KELSON KAUANOE BATANGAN
KEONIKUOHA
DOUGLAS MARDFIN
ASHLEY OLSON
GEORGE PURDY IV
'f.
fr
r'.!*
^'r /),
CHARTER COMMISSION
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAJLUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
BIAIL. CHARTER.COMMISS10N@MAUICOUNTY.GOV
TELEPHONE. (808) 270-7740
FACSENflLE. (808) 270-71S2
Januaiy 20, 2022
Maui Charter CommissionTo:
Sherry Broder, Charter Commission’s Legal Analyst
Richelle M. Thomson, First Deputy Corporation Counsel
Keola R. Whittaker, Deputy Corporation Counsel
Draft Charter Commission Report
From:
Subject:
This memorandum provides important information on your recently
released draftreport. Due to the largenumbers ofproposals,the reportrequired
the work ofan entireteam ofpeople,includingyour analyst,legaladvisors,and
staif.
Afterreviewingthe many proposals in the context oftheirinteractionand
effect on the charter as a whole, we want to bring to your attention those
proposals which raise serious legal,practicalor other issues. These concerns
were addressed in our presentation at the Commission’s January 11, 2022,
meeting and are summarized below.
The County Charter functionsas our county constitution.For thatreason,
the charteris,by design,difficultto change. Ifan amendment isapproved that
contains significantlegalor practicalissues,the votersofthe County willnot be
able to change itfor another two years or will have to hold a specialelection.It
may also require legalaction in order to obtain a court’sinterpretationof the
amendment.
In its coming meetings, the Commission willhave the opportunity to
consider changes to the draftreportbefore itistransmitted to the Council,using
all information available to the Commission, including public testimony,
information from the administration, and input from the Commission’s Analyst
and Corporation Counsel. We are availableto assistyou in draftingchanges to
January 20, 2022
Page 2
the proposals that willreduce the risk of creating unnecessary legal,practical
or other problems while meeting your desired policyoutcomes.
Number of Ballot QuestionsL
The draft report includes 40 separate ballot questions. We are not aware
of any priorcharter commission including this many proposed amendments on
a singleballot.By comparison, the 2012 charter commission approved 11 ballot
questions and the 2002 charter commission approved 14 questions. The two
charter commissions prior to 2002 asked voters to consider the approval of an
entirelynew charter in a single ballot question.
We kept in mind the goal ofreducing the number ofballotquestions when
we drafted the Commission Report to the Council. Several of the 85 approved
proposed amendments were able to be combined into singlequestions. While it
may stillbe possible to make a few further combinations, however, because the
current draft of proposals spans across the entire charter and address many
differentpolicy issues, combining many of them further will likelybe diOicult
without making individual ballotquestion unwieldy and confusing. There may
stillbe ways to combine some of the ballot questions either with a few
adjustments to the current wording of the amendments or otherwise.
Ballot questions are legally required to communicate the proposed
amendment accurately and in words that the average voter can understand.
Combining unrelated amendments into a singleballotquestion may requirethat
questions include multiple subparts, could lead to confusion or, worse, be
impossible to defend in court should someone mount a legalchallenge.
The Hawaii Supreme Court set out in City and County of Honolulu v.
State, 143 Hawaii 455, 431 P.3d 1228 (2018) the principles for the legal
sufficiencyof ballotquestions:
The ballot question must generate “a knowing and deliberate
expression of voter choice.”
The “broad authority”to propose amendments for ratification“is
subject to the limitation that the ballot must enable the voters to
express their choice on the amendments presented and be in such
form and language as not to deceive or mislead the public.”
Proposed amendments and theircorresponding ballotquestions are
both constitutionallyand statutorilyrequired to be phrased in clear
language that is not likelyto deceive voters as to theirnature and
effect.
1.
2.
3.
January 20, 2022
Page 3
Reducing the number of ballotquestions willlikelyrequire eliminating or
rewording certainproposals. Taking such actionsat this stage ofyour process
is not unusual. The 2012 charter commission, for example, approved
amendments that were combined into 21 ballot questions. That commission
subsequently cut back on the number of proposals that ultimatelywent to the
voters. They were able to remove enough proposals to go from 21 ballot
questions to 11.
II. Proposals With Minimal Legal Effect
Some proposals will have a minimal legal effecton how the county
currently functions because they don’t require any specificaction that differs
from current practice. Other amendments address a subject matter that is
currently addressed by state law or county ordinance, meaning this subject
matter can be amended through legislativeaction by Council or the state
legislature.Those proposals are listedbelow.
● Proposal 2 - Open Government {addressed by statelaw)
● Proposal 6 - Cost of Government Commission (minimal legaleffect)
● Proposal 10 - Friendly Culture (minimal legaleffect)
● Proposal20 - CulturalResources Commission (addressedby County
ordinance)
● Proposal 36 - Electronicsignatures (addressed by statelaw)
● Proposal 40 - Removal of transitionalprovisions (minimal legal
effect)
III. Effective Date of Amendments
Charter amendments are effectivethe day they are ratifiedby the voters,
unless indicated otherwise. For County government to operate effectively,itis
essentialthat allof the amendments requiring eitherthe appointment of a board
that does not now existor a budget to hirestaffare given a latereffectivedate.
The followingamendments require budgeting and the hiringof staff.We
recommend they be given an effectivedate of July 1. 2024:
● Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions
● Proposal 21 - Bifurcationof the Department of Housing Ss Human
Concerns
● Proposal 22 - Semi-Autonomous Board of Water Supply
● Proposal 26 - Department of ‘OiwiResources;
● Proposal 27 - Directorof Ethics
● Proposal 29 - Community Commission & Community Boards
January 20, 2022
Page 4
● Proposal 30 - County Hearings Officer
The followingamendments require the appointment of a board that does
not yet exist,and once empaneled, the boards/commissions willneed to adopt
administrative rules. We recommend that they be given an effectivedate ofJuly
1. 2023:
Proposal 34 - Independent Nominations Board
Proposal 35 - Independent Selection Commission
Proposals 4, 7, 11, 12, 27, and 33 insofar as they reference the
boards created by questions 34 and 35.
IV, Incomplete or Conflicts Amendments
There are several amendments that need attention because they are
incomplete or create conflictswith other provisions of the charter or statelaw.
We strongly recommend that you review the following amendments for
significantlegalissues that need to be addressed;
● Proposal 1 - Council Elections (incomplete/internalconflict)
● Proposal 2 - Open government (conflictwith statelaw)
● Proposal 4 - Auditor (incomplete)
● Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions (incomplete / significant
legalproblems)
● Proposal 16 - General plan (internalconflict)
● Proposal 18 - Automatic approval (internalconflict)
● Proposal 21 - Bifurcation of Housing & Human Concerns
(incomplete)
♦ Proposal 22 - Semi-Autonomous Board of Water Supply
(incomplete/internalconflict)
● Proposal 28 - Ethics Code (seriouslegalissue)
● Proposal 30 - County Hearings Officers(incomplete/conflictwith
state law)
● Proposal 35 - Independent Selection Commission
(incomplete/ethicsissues/conflictwith judicialethics)
● Proposal 39 - PoliceCommission (internalconflict)
V. Other Legal Concerns
There are other amendments that we highly recommend you review for
consistency and clarity. Some of these amendments are in tension with, but
may not directly conflictwith, other portions of the charter or existing law.
Others may cause confusion. These include the followingamendments:
January 20, 2022
Page 5
Proposals 11 8s 12 - Corp Counsel/Prosecutor
Proposals15 & 29 - New Planning Commissions/Community
Boards
Proposals33 — Board Qualifications
Proposals34 & 35 - Nomination Board / SelectionCommission
Proposals 16 through 19 - Planning
VI. Financial Impact
The Commission requested an assessment of certainof the amendments.
We forwarded that request to the County Auditor, and willtransmitthat
information upon receipt.The followingamendments are anticipatedto have a
significantfinancialimpact, which may factorintothe Commission’s decision
making:
Proposal 15 - New Planning Commissions
Proposal26 - Department of‘OiwiResources
Proposal 27 - Ethics Director8sStaff
Proposal29 - Community Commission 8gBoards
Proposal30 - County Hearings Officers
VII. New Planning Commissions
One specificproposal- Proposal 15, New Planning Commissions - has a
significantnumber of legaland practicalissues that should be addressed. We
recommend continued study and considerationofthe following:
Procedures to transitionfrom one Maui Planning Commission to six
separatePlanning Commissions that considerdeadlinesfor the
Maui PlanningCommission and development of new processesfor
each of the six new commissions.
Whether decentralization would produce duplication and
inefficienciesand how many additional staff members will be
required.
Whether having differingSpecialManagement Area boundaries or
administrative rules within each of the separate planning areas on
the Island of Maui would lead to confusion or legal issues.
Whether having differing approval processes for Special
Management Area and other permits or approvals would create
1.
2.
3.
4.
Januaiy 20, 2022
Page 6
inequitiesbetween planning areas on the same island,and between
neighboring properties.
How the six different commissions would address island-wide
planning issues including zoning changes, changes to the island
wide plan, and island-wideland-use ordinances.
Whether there are any examples of communities the size of Maui
Island with decentralizedplanning approval processes and what
benefits or challenges those communities have faced.
The planning department and existingplanning commissions and advisory
commissions may be able to assistin this effort.
5.
6.
Vin. Conclusion
A number of your proposals require a rigorous review of the legal,policy,
and practical implications of reforms, with further input and analysis from
experts and stakeholders, prior to finalizationand transmittal to the County
Council. The Council has only 30 days to consider the Commission’s Final
Report and proposed amendments and ballot questions, so transmitting a
document that is as accurate and complete as possible willenable that body to
perform itsreview.The finaldecision on the number, combination and language
of ballotquestions is the responsibilityand kuleana of the Commission.
Additionally,consideration ofvarious changes - from electionsto planning
to appointment of individuals to key positions in government - should include
an assessment of how these discrete changes affects the abilityof county
government to operate efficientlyand effectively.We thereforehighly recommend
that you invitethe public,experts,and those currentlyworking in government
to provide further comments and proposals regarding important but complex
work.
If the Commission concludes that any proposed amendments require
additional consideration and study, ithas the option of forwarding the proposal
to the Council to include on a future ballot after thorough review.
Mahalo nui loa for your excellent, dedicated, and hard work, and we look
forward to continuing to work with you to meet your objectives.
Suggestedlater
effect(ve date for
budgeting/legal/
practicalreasons
Expected to
cost over
$500,000
annually
Minimal LegalEffect
/ Could be
Accomplished by
Ordinance
Has MUSt-fIX
legaland/or
conflict Issues
Has highly-
recommended
legalAxes
Addressed by
Ordinance or State
Law
No. PROPOSAL
1 Council Elections X
Open government/vIdeo conference X2 X
Office of Council Services3
X4 County Auditor X
5 Rscal Impacts to Charter
6 Cost of Government X
X7 County Clerk
Appoint and retainadmin dept heads8
9 Mayoral residency requirement
10 Friendlyculture X
XX11 Corporation Counsel
X X12 Prosecutor
13 Appropriation
14 Good Standing
XX15 New PlanningCommissions XX
General Plan / Land Use Ordinances X16 X
X17 Review Communhy Plans
Automatic approvalofgeneralplan/ordlnances18 XX
X X19 Island-wide Plan
Cultural Resources Commission X20
BifurcateDepts of Housing & Human Concern21 X
Seml-Autonomous BWS22 X
Dirof Water Supply and EP23
24 iPolice Odef
LiquorControl Commission / AdjudicationBoard25
XXOiwi Resources26
XXEthicsBoard / Directorof Ethics27
Ethics Code28 X
XX29 XCommunity Commission & Boards
ProposalReferenceSheetMaui Charter Commission 1
Expected to
cost over
$500,000
annually
Minimal LegalEffect
/ Could be
Accomplished by
Ordinance
Suggested later
effective date for
budgeting/legal/
practicalreasons
Has MusMIx
legaland/or
conflict Issues
Has highly*
recommended
legalfixes
Addressed by
Ordinance or State
Law
No. PROPOSAL
XX30 County Hearings Officer X X
Initiative31
Recall32
Board Qualifications X33
XIndependent Nomination Board X34
Independent SelectionCommission X X35 X
X36 ElectronicSignatures
37 Remove Cap on Penalties
38 BilingualGovernment
39 PoliceCommission Reports X
40 Unneessary TransitionalProvisions X
ProposalReferenceSheetMaui Charter Commission 2
MICHAEL P. VICTORINO
Mayor
MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN, AICP
Director
JORDAN E. HART
Deputy Director DEPARTMENT OF PLANNI
COUNTY OF MAUI
ONE MAIN PLAZA
2200 MAIN STREET, SUITE 315
WAILUKU. MAUI. HAWAII 96793
RECEIVED
By Maul CharterCommission at 11:54am, Jan 24,2022
January24,2022
Mr. Grant Chun, ActingChair
and Members oftheMaui County CharterCommission
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
viaemail:charter.commission@mauicounty.gov
Dear ActingChairChun andCommissionMembers,
20. 29 - 30, 33 - 34 RELATING TO THESUBJECT: PROPOSALS 15
PLANNING DEPARTMENT
Thank you fortheopportunitytosubmitthisadditionaltestimonyon theproposalsthat
relatetotheDepartmentofPlanning(Department),Iprovidedtestimonyon mostoftheseitems
atyourOctober7 andOctober21 meetings.Thank you alsoforyourserviceon thisCommission
and forallofthetimeand effortyou have spentso far.
As someonewho earneda degreeinpoliticalsciencefroma respectedliberalartscollege,
and has worked forthefederal,stateand countygovernmentsformore than25 years,Iwouldfirst
liketonotethatamendingtheCountyCharterisa veryseriousand deliberateact.We shouldnot
changetheframeworkofourgovernmentbasedon issuesthatarenew toourpublicdialogand
thatcan be addressedinotherways,suchaswithordinances.Ask yourselves;“What problem
isthisamendment tryingtosolve?Are we confidentthatmost ofour residentsbelievethis
tobe a problem? Can theproblem be solvedInotherways?” My testimonywillcenteraround
thesequestions.You shouldalsoaskyourselvesifyou trulyunderstandthereasoningbehind,and
theimpactsof,eachproposedamendment beforesupportingany ofthem.
PROPOSALS 15 AND 29
Proposals15 and 29 each seek to develop regionalor localizedrepresentationby
establishingplanningcommissionsforeach community planareaor toallowthecreationof
neighborhoodboards. The Department opposes the Proposals but supportsan alternative
approach.
MAIN LINE (808)270-7735
CURRENT DIVISION (808)170-8205/LONG RANGE DIVISION (808)270-7214/ZONING DIVISION(808)270-7253
Mr. Grant Chun, Acting Chair
and Members oftheMaui County CharterCommission
January 24,2022
Page 2
There is not an adequate localvoice or
representationin planning and other
government decisions
What problemisthistryingtosolve?
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem? Yes, many do
Yes, by ordinance,though one (butnot both)
oftheseapproachesisprobablyneeded	
Can theproblembe solvedinotherways?
The Departmentdoesnotsupportcreatingsixplanningcommissions.In2021,theMaui
PlanningCommission reviewed11projectsinWest Maui,nineinSouthMaui,fiveeachinCentral
Maui and Paia-Haiku,and two each in Upcountry and Hana. This isnot sufficientvolume to
justifysixplanningcommissions.All would have to be trainedina wide varietyof Stateand
County landuseand procedurallaw,as wellasCounty policies,includingzoning,community
plans,Maui IslandPlan,statelanduse districts,countyand statespecialusepermits,conditional
permits,bed and breakfastsand short-termrentalhomes, SpecialManagement Area,Shoreline
Rules,Native Hawaiian Law, Sunshine Law, Code of Ethics,ViolenceintheWorkplace,Sexual
Harassment,Discriminationand Drug-FreeWorlqilace.The commissionsthatwould have few
projectstorevieweachyearcouldnotbe expectedtoretainallofthisinformationiftheydo not
havetoapplyiton a regularbasis.Furthermore,therewould bea lackofconsistencyofdecisions
among the differentcommissions. Lastly,our experiencehas been thatwhen thereare few
meetingsofa boardorcommission,members loseinterestand stopattending.
Your analyst’sreportprovidesadditionalreasonswhy thisisproblematic.
One optionforbetterrepresentationwould be fortheMaui PlanningCommission’snine
members tohave regionalrepresentationrequirements,suchasthatone member mustbe from
each of thesixcommunityplanregions,and no regioncan havemore thantwo members. That
willensurethateachregionisrepresentedand thatno regionhasa much strongervoicethan
another.Thiscouldbe accomplishedbv ordinance.
Ifthe Commission nonethelesswishestoproposeamendments to theChartertoaddress
thismatter,we continuetoproposethefollowing:
Section8-8.4.PlanningCommissions. ...Each planningcommissionshallexerciseitspowers,
duties,and functionsas follows:
The Maui PlanningCommission shallbe concernedwiththeareaencompassing
the islands of Maui and Kahoolawe and allother islandslyingwithinthreenauticalmilesof the
shoresthereof,and thewatersadjacentthereto.Of itsninemembers,thereshallbe atleastone
and no more than two residents from each community plan region.
1.
Alternatively,or in addition,and as presentedin priortestimony,community or
neighborhoodboardscouldbe createdand givenspecificauthority,especiallywith respectto
community plans:
Mr. GrantChun,ActingChair
and Members oftheMaui County CharterCommission
January 24,2022
Pages
Article . Community Boards.
1. There shallbe a community board for each community planregionon Maui,comprised
of seven members who reside in the region and who shall be elected at-laree bv the registered
voters of the region. The countv clerk shall make a good faith effort to inform the voters of all
regions that they may seek seats on the community boards and thatthey willhave theopportunity
to vote for community board members. The county clerk shall also verify that each candidate is a
residentoftherespectiveregion.
2. Community boards shall be utilized bv the countv council, the mayor, and all countv
departmentsto obtaininputand feedbackon projectsand initiativesthataffectthe respective
region.
3. Each community board shallhold at leastsix monthly meetingsperyear.
4. Community boards shallparticipatein the community plan review process as
established in Section 8-8.5 herein.
5. There shallbe the necessary number of secretariesto boardsand commissionstopost
agendas,prepareminutesand provideotherstaffsupport.The secretariesshallbe appointedbv
the mayor and confirmed bv the council, and may be removed bv the mayor with the consent of
the council.
Section8>8.5.GeneralPlanand Community Plans.
....4. There shallbe a citizenadvisorycommitteeforeach community planarea.Each
citizenadvisorycommitteeshallconsistofthirteenmembers,[withnineappointedby theoouncil
and fourappointedby themayor]withsevenbeingthemembers of thecommunity board,four
appointedbv thecounciland two appointedbv themayor.Each citizenadvisorycommitteeis
chargedwithreviewingand recommending revisionstothecommunity planforitscommunity
planarea.Eachcitizenadvisorycommitteeshallremaininexistenceuntilitsrevisionsareadopted,
modified,orrejectedbythecouncilanduntilsuchactionisapproved,modified,orrejectedby the
mayor.
PROPOSAL 16
Proposal16would (a)allowCounciltoacton certainmatterswithoutplanningcommission
review,and(b)toshortenthetimetheplanningcommissionshave to review certainmatters.The
Department supports the Proposal but does not object to it being deleted.
What problemisthistryingtosolve? (a) There are not consequencesif the
commissions do not provide their
recommendationsina timelymanner,and (b)
thecommissionstaketoolongtoprovidetheir
recommendations
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem?
Can theproblembe solvedinotherways?
No
Maybe by ordinance
Mr. GrantChun,ActingChair
and Members oftheMaui County CharterCommission
January 24,2022
Page 4
The Departmentproposedtheseamendments and believestheyarewarranted,buttheyare
notcriticaltotheoverallframework ofour County governmentandarenota concerntothegeneral
public.Becausethereareother,more substantiveissuestoconsider,and tominimizethenumber
of amendments on the ballot we would not object to thisProposalbeingdeleted.
PROPOSAL 17
Proposal17 would (a)clarifythe Department’srolein reviewingthe annualcapital
improvementproject(CIP)budgetand (b)requirethePlanningDirectortoreporton thestatusof
thecommunity plan updateprocess.The Department supportsthe Proposal but does not
object to it being deleted.
(a)The Departmentshouldnotbe responsible
forprioritizingtheCIP budget,and (b)thereis
no requirementforupdateson thecommunity
plan process
What problemisthistryingtosolve?
NoDo our residentsbelievethisto be a problem?
(a)No, and (b)yes,by ordinanceCan the problem be solvedinotherways?
The Departmentproposedamendment (a)andbelievesitiswarranted.Amendment (b)can
be addressedby ordinance.Neitheramendment iscriticaltotheoverallframework of our County
governmentorisa concerntothegeneralpublic.Becausethereareother,more substantiveissues
to consider, and to minimize the number of amendments on the ballot this Proposal should be
deleted.
PROPOSAL 18
Proposal18 would provideautomaticapprovalifCouncilfailstoacton certainmatters.
The Department supports the Proposal but does not object to it being deleted.
What problem isthistryingtosolve? There arenotconsequencesiftheCouncildoes
not act in a timely manner
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem?
Can the problem be solvedinotherways?
No
Maybe by ordinance
The Departmentproposedtheseamendments and believestheyarewarranted,buttheyare
notcriticaltotheoverallframeworkofourCounty government and arenota concerntothegeneral
public.Because thereareother,more substantiveissuesto consider,and to minimize thenumber
of amendments on the ballot,we would not object to thisProposalbeingdeleted.
Mr. GrantChun,ActingChair
and Members oftheMaui County CharterCommission
January24,2022
Page 5
PROPOSAL 19
Proposal19wouldhavetheMaui islandcommunityplanobjectivesbe toimplementthe
Maui IslandPlan(MIP)inadditiontothegeneralplan.The DepartmentopposestheProposal.
Unknown, because the MIP is part of the
generalplan,so thisisredundant
What problemisthistryingtosolve?
Do our residentsbelieve thisto be a problem? No
Yes, by ordinanceCan the problem be solved in otherways?
Thislanguageisduplicativeand unnecessary.Itcouldalsobeaccomplishedby ordinance.
Because there are other, more substantive issues to consider, and to minimize the number of
amendmentson theballotthisProposalshouldbedeleted.
PROPOSAL 20
Proposal20 would add the CulturalResourcesCommission (CRC) to the Planning
Department.The Department supportstheProposalbut doesnotobjecttoItbeingdeleted.
Unknown, becausetheCRC isalreadypartof
theDepartment	 	
What problemisthistryingtosolve?
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem? No
Yes, ithas alreadybeen solvedby ordinanceCan the problem be solved in otherways?
The DepartmentsupportshavingtheCRC aspartoftheDepartmentanddoesnotobjectto
thisproposal.The CRC isalreadysupportedby theDepartment,and itmightbe importantto
formalizethisrelationshipintheCharter.However, becausethereareother,more substantive
issues to consider, and to minimize the number of amendments on the ballot,this Proposal could
be deleted.
PROPOSAL 30
Proposal30 would createa County HearingOfficerDepartmenttoconductallcontested
cases. The Department opposes the Proposal.
What problemisthistryingtosolve? Unknown; apparentdissatisfactionwithsome
contested case decisions
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem? No
Can theproblem be solvedinotherways? Maybe by ordinance
Mr. Grant Chun, ActingChair
and Members oftheMaui CountyCharterCommission
January 24,2022
Page 6
The Departmentopposesthisamendment. As written,itwould enfeebletherolesofthe
Board of Variancesand Appeals,the MolokaiPlanningCommission,the LanaiPlanning
Commission,and theMaui PlanningCommission,among others.Wheneverthesebodieshave
finaldecision-makingauthority,theproceedingisa contestedcase.Havingthesemattersheard
by a HearingOfficer,whose deliberationsareprivateand heldbehindcloseddoors,beforethe
body conductsitsdeliberations,willadd time,costand profoundconfusionto thepermitting
process.Italsoconflictswithsome requirementsinStatelaw,and islikelytobe quitecostly,as
noted inyour analyst’sreport.
This would be an example of bad governmentrunamok, and ata highprice.Becausethis
amendment was poorlyconceivedand likelynotunderstood,thisProposalshouldbe deleted.
PROPOSAL 33
Proposal33 would make severalamendments to how board and commission members
servetheirterms:(a)termswould beginwhen theytakeofficeinsteadofalwaysbeginningApril
I,(b)therewould beno politicalpartybalancerequirement,(c)when a vacancy isfilled,thenew
member startsa new termand doesnotcompletetheterm of theoutgoingmember, and (d)no
carryoversformembers who servelessthantwoyears.The Department supportstheProposal.
What problemisthistryingtosolve? Improvetheprocessforboardandcommission
vacancies and terras
Do our residentsbelievethisto be a problem? Maybe
Can the problem be solvedinotherways? No
The Departmentproposedamendment(b)andsupportstheotheramendments.Whilethese
may notbesignificantissuestothepublic,thereareconcernswithboardsandcommissionshaving
fullandbalancedmemberships,andtheseamendmentswould helpinthatregard.Amendment (d)
would be appropriateiftheotheramendmentsareapprovedsincetherewould no longerbe
carryovers.PleasesupportthisProposal.
PROPOSAL 34
Proposal34 createsan independentpaneltonominateboard and commission members.
The Department supports the Proposal.
What problemisthistryingtosolve? Improve the processfor fillingboard and
commission vacancies
Do ourresidentsbelievethistobe a problem? Maybe
Can theproblembe solvedinotherways? No
Mr. Grant Chun, Acting Chair
and Members oftheMaui CountyCharterCommission
January 24,2022
Page 7
The sixboardsand commissionsthattheDepartmenthas longstaffedoftenhave vacancies
thataredifFicuUtofill.The processhasbecome politicizedand isnotflexibleenoughtokeep
applicantsengagedand readytofillvacancies(seealsoProposal33).Whilethismay notbe a
significantissuetothepublic,thereareconcernswithboardsandcommissionshavingfulland
balancedmemberships,and theseamendmentswouldhelpin thatregard. Pleasesupportthis
Proposal.
Yourcarefulattentiontothistestimonywouldbeappreciated.These areimportantissues
thatwould affectmy Departmentsignificantly,and I would nothave put theseconcernsinto
writingifIbelievedyou would notgivethem yourthoughtfulconsideration.
As always,ifyou have any questionsorneedadditionalinformation,pleasedo nothesitateto contact me.
Sincerely,
MICHELE McLEAN, AICP
PlanningDirector
Mayor MichaelP.Viclorino
Sandy Baz,Managing Director
Moana Lutey,CorporationCounsel
JordanHart,DeputyDirector
JackyTakakura,ActingPlanningProgramAdministrator
ClaytonYoshida,PlanningProgramAdministrator
Pam Eaton,PlanningProgramAdministrator
KathleenAoki,PlanningProgramManager
xc:
MCM:atw
C;\Users\mcmchDesklop\Code-RuIeAmend^CharterCommissionJanuaiy26 testlmony.docjc
. ' ●
GRANT Y.M. CHUN, CHAIR
KEONIJ. KXJOHA, VICE CHAIR
KELSON KAUANOE BATANGAN
DOREEN N. CANTO
DAVID P. DELEON
PAUL C. DESLAURIERS
KAREYK. KAPOI
DOUGLAS WARD mRDFIN
ASHLEY S. OLSON
GEORGE PURDY IV
MICHAEL L. WILLIAMS
r
CHARTER COMMISSION
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII 96793
EMAIL. CHAUTER.COMMISSION@MAUICOUNTY.GO\^
THLBFHONE, (808) 270-7740
FACSIMILE. (»8) 270-7152
enlml.ch,arter.commission^.\uuicounty.c;o\’
Februaiy 18, 2022
The Honorable Alice L. Lee
Chair, Maui County Council
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii 96793
REi Final Report of the 2021-2O22 Maui County Charter Commission
Dear Chair Lee:
I am pleased to transmit herewith on behalfof the Maui County Charter
Commission a copy of the 2021-2022 Maui County Charter Commission Final
Report, February 18, 2022.
This report is the resultof a substantial amount of work contributedby
the dedicated members of the Charter Commission, and itsstaff,since March,
2021.
On behalf of all of the members of the Charter Commission, I would like
to expressour gratitudeforthe opportunitytopropose theseamendments, which
the Commission feelswillbe beneficialto our government and the peopleofMaui
County.
Mahalo,
GRANT Y.M. CHUN, Chair
Maui County Charter Commission
Enc.
Cc:The HonorableMichaelP.Victorino,Mayor (w/enclosure)
SIXTH PROPOSAL
Require the Maui Planning Commission to have representation from each
Maui community plan district;allow for Kalaupapa to be Included within
the jurisdiction of the Molokai Planning Commission upon State action;
clarifythe order of community plan development; and set 10-year deadline
for review of all community plans.
The Commission recommends that:
Section 8-8.4 of the Charter be amended as follows:1.
“Section 8-8.4. Planning Commissions. Each planning commission
shallconsist of nine members appointed by the mayor with the approval
of the council. The members of each planning commission shall be
residents of the island ofthe planning commission on which the member
serves.The [director]directorsofthe [deportment]departments ofpublic
workSj. [and] environmental management^, and [the director of the
department of]water supply shall be non-voting ex-officiomembers of
each commission.
Each planning commission shall exerciseitspowers, duties,and
functions as follows:
The Maui planning commission shallbe concerned with the
area encompassing the islands of Maui and Kaho'olawe and allother
islands l5dng within three nautical miles of the shores thereof, and the
waters adjacent thereto.Of itsnine members, there shall be at leastone
and no more than two members who reside in each Maui community plan
1.
district.
The Moloka'i planning commission shallbe concerned with
those areas of the county encompassed within the island of Moloka'i and
allother islands lying within three nautical miles of the shores thereof,
and the waters adjacent theretof,except thot-portion of the island Icnown
Q6 Koloupopa, KqIqwqo, and Woiltolu and commonly Icnown oo the
Koloupopa Settlement],
2.
The Lana'i planning commission shall be concerned with the
area encompassing the island of Lana'i and allother islands lyingwithin
three nautical miles of the shores thereof, and the waters adjacent
thereto.”
3.
23
Section 8-8.5 of the Charter be amended as follows:2.
Section 8-8.5. General Plan and Community Plans.
The generalplan shallbe developed afterinput from stateand
county agencies and the general public,and shall be based on sound
policy and information.
1.
The general plan shall indicate desired population and
physical development patterns for each island and region within the
county; shall address the unique problems and needs of each island and
region; shall explain the opportunities and the social,economic, and
environmental consequences relatedto potentialdevelopments; and shall
set forth the desired sequence, patterns, and characteristicsof future
developments. The general plan shall identifyobjectivesto be achieved,
and priorities,policies,and implementing actions to be pursued with
respect to population density, land use maps, land use regulations,
transportation systems, public and community facilitylocations,water
and sewage systems, visitordestinations,urban design, and other
matters related to development.
The planning directorshallissue a reportannually providing
a detailed explanation of the implementation and enforcement of the
general plan and the community plans to the mayor and the council.
There shall be a citizen advisory committee for each
community plan area. Each citizenadvisory committee shall consist of
thirteenmembers, with nine appointed by the council and four appointed
by the mayor. Each citizenadvisory committee is charged with reviewing
and recommending revisions to the community pleuifor its community
plan area. Each citizenadvisory committee shall remain in existence until
itsrevisionsare adopted, modified,or rejectedby the council and until
such action is approved, modified, or rejectedby the mayor.
The community plans created and revised by the citizen
advisory committees shall set forth, in detail, land uses within the
community plan regions of the county. The objectivesof each community
plan shall be to implement the policiesof the general plan. Each
community plan shallinclude implementing actions that clearlyidentify
priorities,timelines, estimated costs, and the county department
accountableforthe completion ofthe implementing actions.
The community plans [generatedthrough the oitizenadvisory
d-aeeepted by the plonning-commisoion,] initiatedby the
department of planning, reviewed and revised by the community plan
advisory committees and the appropriate planning commission, and
[accepted]approved by the council[7]and mayor are part of the general
plan. The community plans shall be reviewed every ten years.”
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
24
The ballot question would be as follows:
Shall Sections 8-8.4 and 8-8.5 of the Charter of the County of Maui
be amended to require that the Maui Planning Commission have
representation from each Maui community plan district;allow for
K^aupapa tobeincludedwithinthejurisdictionofthe Molokai Planning
Commission upon State action; clarifythe order of community plan
development; and seta requirement that allcommunity plans be reviewed
every 10 years?
25
Countjr^Clerk
From:
Sent
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday,June 30,2022 4:57PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Pleasevoteto puttheWater AuthorityAmendment on the Ballot
To:
Subject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Paula Phillips<paulalee@haw/aii.rr.com>
Sent:Thursday,June 30,2022 4:52:18PM
To: AliceL Lee <Alice.Lee(a)mauicounty.us>;Shane M. Sinenci<Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>;Tamara A. Paltin
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>; Gabe Johnson <GabeJohnson@mauicou nty.us>;Keani N. Rawlins
<Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>;'Mayors Office’<Mayors.Office@co.maui.hi.us>;KellyKing
<Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>;TashaA.Kama <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>
Subject:Pleasevoteto put theWater AuthorityAmendment on the Ballot
Aloha Mayor and Maui County CouncilMembers,
Iwould likeyou to pleasevoteto puttheWater AuthorityAmendment on the Ballot.Itiscriticalto Maui County to have
more authorityover the management of our water.Thisisa criticalstep inour food security.
Mahalo nui loa,
OOPaula Phillips
Haiku 73O-n
C "H m
5^ oI
]"n
ooiVirus-free, wvyw.avast.com <m“n
mmH
P3X a4=m ut
1
Count^lerk
Pamela Polland<mele@pameiapolland.com>
Wednesday,June29,2022 9:28AM
County Clerk
InSupportofThe Maui Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom mele@pamelapolland.com.Leam_whvthisisimportant
PleasesupportthecreationoftheMaui Community Water Authority.
I'm unable to come to the livemeeting,but pleasecountmy "vote"
in favor of this much needed idea.
Mahalo,
Pamela Polland
226 KulalaniDrive,Kula HI 96790 SI.oo
ZO
m
ofO
mCl
:o <O-n
m-^ m
o\jj
1
Count^le^
gracepretre<gracelovemaui@gmail.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 10:33PM
County Clerk
Support the Maui County Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
[Youdon'toftengetemailfrom gracelovemaui@gmail.com.Learn \A/hythisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
Pleasesupportthe Maui County Community Water Authority,as ItIsessentialat thistime, mahalo.
Sincerely,
Grace Pretre
PO Box 957
Hana, Hi 96713
oo
O-n
50"^m
7)c__
m
oI
m-<
oo *n
rnm M
73.T
✓nHI
o
1
County Clerk
RFUETVEU
JillRichards<youdodo_maui@yahoo.com>
Thursday,June30,2022 8:08AM
County Clerk
Establishinga Maui CountyCommunity WaterAuthority
From:
Sent: 2022JUN 30 AH 8: 14To:
Subject
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom youdodo_maui@yahoo.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam insupportoftheMauiCountyCouncilvotinginfevorofestablishinga Maui CountyCommunity WaterAuthority.
JillRichards, Haiku resident.
808 264 1663
PO Box 81471
700 Honopou rd
Haiku. Hi. 96708
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
SheilaRoback <sheila@madcc.org>
Friday,July 1,2022 8:05 AM
County Clerk
cc 22-151 8icr 22-56.
To:
Subject:
1 You don'toftenget emailfrom sheila@madcc.org.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Subject; cc 22-151 & cr 22-56.
Aloha Chair Lee & Council Members,
My name isSheilaRoback and Iam infullsupport of establishinga Maui County Community Water Authorityand an
East Maui Community Regional Board and Isupport puttingiton the ballotto letthe people decide.
It'sbeen too longthatour water has been run by outsidePrivateCorporations and Ido not wish to see a PrivateForeign
Investment company deciding where our water goes.
Pleasehear the voicesof the people who are tiredof seeing our preciouswater being desecrated by those who have no
authority;these waters are the rightsof the people,forthe people and should be protected by the people!
Mahalo forlisteningand choose the right!Letthe people decide!
1
RECEIVED
Aloha,
mi JUN 30 AH 7: 54
My name isCarterRosenthal,a 17-year-oldupcoming senioratSeaburyHallHigh
School.I spentmuch timelivingon Maui’snorthshorebeforemoving upcoi^^
Ido notrecallseeinga singleseabird,despitelivingminutesfromtheocean0®iilWaSyinBUER K
recentlyvisitedtheburrowsatHo’okipa,payingspecialattentiontothebirdsthatlivedthere.I
had heard thatmillions of seabirds had once thrived where Istood,yetsimplyseeingtwo orthree
was shockingtome. Itisclearthatseabirdsareindangerdue toMaui’slightpollution,butwith
theirdanger comes oursaswell.ItisforthisreasonthatIwriteinfavorofBill21.
When Iwas a freshman,Ilearnedabouttheconceptof“trophiccascades”inmy biology
class.Iwas drawn totheconceptand founditremarkablethattheextinctionofa keystone
speciescouldimmeasurablyimpactitssurroundingecosystem.LittledidIknow thatMaui was
undergoinga trophiccascadeof itsown.
As globalwarming becomes more severe,so do risingsealevelsand storms.Without
seabirds,our reefswillbe unabletoreceivenutrients,dying and beingunableto protectMaui
from thesethreats.Wthout seabirds,my oldnorthshoreyardwillerodeintotheocean,taking
my house with it.Wthout seabirds,thefishthatsustainmany peoplewilllosetheirhabitats.
Itisourkuleanatorepairthedamage thathasalreadybeen done.To thinkthatwe could
causeirreparabledamage toourlocalcommunitiesifwe do nottakethesomewhat simpleaction
ofchanginglightbulbsispainful.We have alreadytakentremendousstepstowardsrestoringour
reefsby banningchemicalsunscreens.Now itistimethatwe takesimilarstepsthroughpassing
Bill21’sbluelightlimitations.Bill21 isnota billexclusivelysupportingseabirds,rather,itisa
billthatsupportsseabirds,reefs,fish,theaina,people,and countlessothers.
Mahalo,
Carter Rosenthal
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Michael Sado <outlook_12C5F27B00BDD6EC@outlook.com>
Friday,July1,2022 11:39 AM
County Clerk
Bill21 Testimony
To;
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom outlook_12c5f27b00bdd6ec@outlook.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Testifier:Mike Sado (Maui resident)
Address: 118 Olina Street,Kahului Hawaii,96732
Aloha Maui County Councilmembers.
My name isMike Sado and Iam born and raised on Maui for my lifetime.Iam currentlya high school teacher and
baseballcoach forMaui High School. Ihave been a teacher for26 years and coach for13 years intermittently.Iwould
liketo voice my concerns on Bill21 "Birdbill."!am formallyagainstand urge you to vote "NO" againstthisbillcitinga
lackof specificsas to how our residents,county and state recreationalfacilities,and privatecommercial facilitieswillbe
in compliance to it.
First,Bill21 willimpact our county inthe followingways:
● Remove safety exemptions needed forpublicsafetyactivitiessuch as road construction,emergency repairs,field
harvesting and road crossing.
● Remove exemptions forsafety and securitylightingfor pools and water features,includingwaterfallsor ponds,
necessary to help prevent people from trippingand falling.
● Regulate lightingon federaland stateproperties,includingairportsand harbors.
● Ban commonly used residentialand commercial lightingfixtures,likestringlightsused to lightoutdoor patios or
stringlightsused forevents on Market StreetinWailuku.
● Prohibitfloodlights,includingthose thatare on a timerforsecuritypurposes, and certainfootpathlightingand
lightingused by campers.
● Ban lightingused at common events,such as:
● Outdoor events such as the Makawao Rodeo
● Bon dances using lanternson stringlights
● Kahului Sunday Night Market
● Food truck areas, such as the venues near Costco
● Outdoor concerts or movies
● Maui Fair lighting
● Luau, outdoor parties
● Use of up-lightingforilluminatingbuildingsor landscaping
● Privatesportsfacilities,such as golfcourse and drivingranges
● MIL and hosted hosted State Tournament sport games.
● And on and on 	
As a high school and youth league baseballcoach, itschallenging to schedule practicesand season games at our field
facilitiesthroughout the year inthe time thatwe have. As a coach, our youth puts inthe work, dedication and effortto play
nightgames. This willtake away the opportunitytoshowcase theirtalentsin the sports.
“How can you ailguarantee that allof the above events (recreation)be subject to exemption so they are not be
banned or taken away.” Ifyou cannot, YOU MUST VOTE “NO” on Bill21. Untilthere are guarantees.
Voting forthe Bill21 as itiswrittenwilltake away the above events and willaffecta whole lotof organizations.
1
On another note,most of the people thatare forthisBilldo not understand the lifestyleof the localpeople
completely. Most are those who are the so called'‘transplants"that moved to Maui recentlyor have made Maui their
home because they could not stand livingon the mainland and they want to again change our locallifestyle.These
people claim they are allforthe environment and saving our seabirds, but they don’ttake intoaccount how itwillimpact
the “local"people’s lifestyleThese people claim they understand the locallifestylewhen trulythey want to change itto
meet theirlifestyle.You need to take intoconsiderationhow thisBillwillimpact the locallifestylebefore you making
decisions.You allare making decisionbased on the comments and opinions of the transplantsand do not represent
those thatare truly“born and raised"here in Hawaii.
Iam sick and tiredof people thatcome to Maui and make itthere place of residence, and immediately startto change our
locallifestyle.This has been going on foryears and itneeds to stop. You folksthe councilneed to speak up forthe local
people’svoice ratherstanding up forthe unspoken majorityof our localresidence who don’thave time to testifybecause
they are working jobs during the day.
Vote “NO” on Bill21 untilguarantees forthe events above can be met.
Thank you foryour time
Mike Sado, Maui resident
Sent from Mail for Windows
2
County Clerk -RE.CFJ.VFD
28ZZJUL-1 AH 7: 47From:
Sent:
Susanna SeaFire<sea.fire.enchantment@gmail.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 11:22PM
County Clerk
testimonyre:Maui County Community Water Authority.
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom sea.fire.enchantment(S)Qmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha!
Establishinga countywide community water authoritygives us the opportunityto bringinthe rightexpertise
and acquirethe fundingto manage thispreciousresourcewisely.As itstands,aging infrastructureand
mismanagement contributeto unacceptableamounts ofwasted water,with major impacts to localecosystemS:
watersheds, and communities.
A Maui County Community Water Authoritywould allowus toinvestinwatershed restorationand repairsand
maintenance to oldwastefulinfrastructure,develop transparent,efficient,and culturallyand environmentally
responsiblesystems ofmanagement, providelocaljobs inresourcemanagement, and ensure water security
forallofMaui’scurrentand futureresidents.Regionalcommunity boards incorporatethe indispensable
knowledge from localcommunities who have an intimateunderstanding oftheirwatersheds and water
systems.
The alternativeisprivate,corporatecontrolover publictrustresourceswithno guaranteeofgood stewardship
or equitable distributionof water or water rates.
We cannotaffordtoperpetuatethe statusquo. Maui County must do bettertoensure thesustainabilityofour
resources, our ‘aina,and our communities.
1
receivedCounty Clerk
JUN29W®57BarrySultanoff<essentiai@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 10:49AM
County Clerk
Isupportcreationof MCWA
From:
Sent: mi
To:
COUNTYSubject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom essential@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupport the creationof the Maui Community Water Authority
BarrySultanoff
2401U mi Place
Haiku HI. 96708
1
From:
Sent:
Ane Takaha <bhaktlrocks@earthlink.net>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 3:47PM
County Clerk
Water
ReCEiVED
mi M29 PH «|:15
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftengetemailfrom bhaktirocks@earthlink.net.Learnwhy thisIs THE
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentificatlon] COUNTY CLERK
Pleasesupport the creationof the Maui Community Water AuthorityThank you Ane Takaha Maui Meadows
Sent from my IPad
1
Coun^Cle^
From:
Sent:
Akari Ueoka <akariueoka2@gmaii.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 9:48AM
County Clerk
Maui County Community Water Authority
To:
Subject
You don'toftengetemailfrom akariueoka2@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Pleasesupportthe creationof the Maul Community Water Authority.
Akari Ueoka
Zipcode: 96708
OO 73
m■zz.
ozo
m-<
o
mr
O\jj
1
pt=r.FlVEP
TO JUN30WI2--3I
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent
JenniferValentine<faboo1028@yahoo.com>
Thursday,June 30,2022 11:54AM
County Clerk
SupporttheMauiCountyCommunityWaterAuthorityQppIQEOF THE
COUNTY GLERK
To:
Subject:
You don’toftengetemailfrom fabool028@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
please supportan historiccharteramendment thatcreatesa Maui County Community Water
Authorityto manage East Maui stream waters- and eventuallyotheroldplantationsystems - forthe
benefitof our localfarmers, kuleana users, residents,and watersheds.
The Maui County Water Authoritywould have the abilityto createregionalcommunity boards - for
each area affected- toguidethe watershed planningofthatarea.
Help our community have a voice Inour water future!
This isan importantand necessary stepforMaui County!
mahalo, Jennifervalentine
1
RECt;VED
MAUI OCEAN CENTER
Ml JUO 29 AH 9= 11Our Misshr\:Tofosterunderstar^ding,
wonder and respectforHawaii'smarinelife.
vJJFF'lCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK 06/29/22
TESTIMONY OPPOSING MAUI COUNTY CORPORATION COUNCEL VERSION
OF BILL 21 SEABIRD AND BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION (CARE 74)
Dear Honorable Chair and Committee Members,
Istronglysupport Bill21, CD 1.
Iam a Board member at Ma'alaea TriangleAssociation(MTA) which represents allthe
commercial business inthe Ma'alaea Trianglecommercial area. We have a parking lotthat
contains 756 parking stallsand 27 lightpoles most being 30' high.These lightpoles were
Installedabout 25 yearsago when the commercial area was developed and are end of lifewith
outdated lightingtechnology that isnot energy efficientand not very seabird friendly.We are in
the finalstagesof contractnegotiationswith a lightingmanufacturer that isable to deliverto
our specifications;< 2% blue lightcontent,< 3,000K,and shielded lightfixtures.This technology
meeting the above specificationsisreadilyavailable.They are completely PV + battery
operated. Our new lightswillbe 18'tall.We expect to be able to execute thisprojectby the end
of 2022.
Iwanted to share thisprojectwith Maui County Councilconsideringthisissueas here we have
a privateorganizationthat recognizesthe importance of thisissueand ismaking the decision
on itsown to lead with a solutionthat isnot only seabird and sea turtlefriendlybut also most
energy efficientand itishappening now. And the UH astronomy willalsoappreciate more
clarityinthe nightskies.Iurge the Maui County Council to continue to be forward lookingand
be the agentsforpositivechange inand forour Community. Thank you foryour time and
consideration.
Aloha,
X.\
Tapani Vuori
c.808.561.2022
tvuori@mauioceancenter.com
Hawaii 96793Wailuku ma
Testimony insupport of Bill21 GDI as proposed by the CARE committee
Richard J Wainscoat
riw@hawaii.edu
Iam an astronomer at the Universityof Hawaii, and have worked formany years on lighting
issues relatedto preservingthe dark nightsky forastronomy.
Istronglysupport Bill21 GDI as proposed by the CARE committee. This billcloselyparallels
the lightingordinance thatispresentlyinplace inthe County of Hawaii.That lightingordinance
has successfullyprotected the dark nightsky over Maunakea, and has also helped to protect
endangered species on the Islandof Hawaii.
Maui’s lightingformany years has been mostly high-pressuresodium (HPS) lighting.A
spectrum of an HPS lamp isshown below:
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelength(nm)
This spectrum shows that HPS lamps are deficientinblue and green light.Blue light,and to a
lesserdegree, green light(because of Rayleigh scattering)are very damaging to astronomy.
Furthermore, the naturaldark nightsky isvery dark inthe blue and green wavelengths shorter
than 555 nm (yellow-greencolor).
Astronomers recognizethe need forlightat night,but stronglyfavoruse ofyellow,amber,
orange and red light.Inadditionproper shielding— fuilshielding— iscriticallyimportant.
Endangered species such as birds and turtlesare also affected by lightat night.The
wavelengths of lightthat have the strongest affecton most species are blue light,and to a
lesserdegree, green light.Therefore,the preferredlightingto protect endangered species is
also fullyshielded yellow,amber, orange and red light.The spectral requirements for protecting
these species are similarto what is needed to protect the dark night sky over Haleakala
observatory for astronomy.
Lightemittingdiodes (LEDs) have come intowidespread use. Nearly every LED lightisbased
upon an InGaN blue LED, and a phosphor that converts some (orall)of the blue lightto longer
(redder)wavelengths. Many LED lightshave much more blue lightthan HPS, so a switchover in
Maui County from HPS to LED must be done very carefully,with great care not to increase the
amount of blue light.
Some sample LED spectra are shown below:
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelengthlnm)
Phosphor Converted amber - thisiswidely available,and consistentwith the Bill21 CD1 blue
lightlimitations.This lightwould be acceptable to astronomy and islikelyacceptable for
protection of birds and turtles.Ithas an amber appearance.
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelengthinm)
Filteredwarm (3000 K) LED — thisisinwide usage on the Islandof Hawaii. Ithas very little
blue light,but bettercolor renditionthan HPS. This isacceptable to astronomy, but could be
improved forbirdand nightsky protectionby adjustingthe base LED and the filterto reduce
the amount of green lightThis lightisslightlymore energy efficientthan PC amber. Ithas a
yellow appearance.
380 4 20 4 6 0 500 540 580 620 660 700 74 0 780
Wavelenglh(nm)
3000 K LED - thishas a much largeramount of blue light,and also more green light.Use of
3000 K LEDs willcause degradation of the nightsky forastronomy, and harm birdsand turtles.
Use of even higher colortemperature LEDs iseven worse due to higherblue content.
380 420 460 500 540 580 620 660 700 740 780
Wavelengthlnm)
Cree 3000 K LED - thisisa very poor choice foroutdoor lighting.Itiseffectivelya -4000 K
white LED to which a largeamount of red lighthas been added to pulldown the color
temperature. The human eye isinsensitiveto the blue and red light,but the lightfrom thislamp
would be very damaging to astronomy and harmfulto species affectedby blue and red light.
Fullshieldingof lightingiscriticallyimportant.Unshielded lighttravelsgreatdistances,and
interfereswith astronomy and wildlife.Spectralcontrolisalsocriticallyimportant.Bill21 GDI
(CARE committee version)takes good steps to controlthe spectralcontent of lightby limiting
blue light.The CorporationCounsel versionof Bill21 does not adequatelycontrolblue light
(and would be very harmfulto astronomy and wildlife).
County Clerk RSgfilVgP .
mi JUN 30 AH 7-56aeriewaters <aeriewaters@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 9:18PM
County Clerk
Maui County Community Water Authority
From:
Sent:
To;
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom aeriewaters@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportantat
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Water isa giftfrom the heavens, and as such, itsfairdistributionshould be the decisionof a broad based voice.
Pleaseapprove thismore pono way to protectwater rightsforall.
With aloha,
Aerie Waters
1
Count^lerk 'RilGDVDD
AliciaRittenberry<arittenberry888@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 29,2022 2:14PM
County Clerk
Resolution 22-119, FD1
From:
Sent: 2022JUN 29 PH 2» «I9
To:
Subject: OFFieE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftengetemailfrom arittenberry888@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha and mahalo forallowingme tovoicemy approvaloftheresolutiontocreatea Maui County ComniunityWater
Authorityto manage East Maui stream waters inorder to protectand equitablydistributeour most preciousresource.
Alicia Wood
(808)298-9337
1