MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-03-04
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1182,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MiNyiES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
March 4, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:00 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
March 4, please come to order.
Good morning. Members. Today's greeting is... excuse me,... And it is an Ukrainian
greeting in honor of our freedom fighter friends and family.
So, Madam Clerk, shall we begin with roll call?
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: . . . Chair. Proceeding with roll call. Members should
state who. If anyone, is present with them as part of roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: . . . and pryvit. Chair and fellow Councilmembers. Aloha
kakahiaka my Maui. . . Today we're broadcasting from 200 South High Street. And
I'm here at the office with my EA's, Don Atay and Gina Flammer. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha . . . and pryvit. Madam Chair and my colleagues, and
everyone else joining us for our Council meeting today. For the record, I’m transmitting
from my district office out here in Paia, Maui, out at Heritage Hall. And I'm accompanied
by my Executive Assistant Ana Lillis. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 2
COUNTY CLERK: Counciimember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Aloha kakahiaka, . . . and pryvit, everyone. I am broadcasting
from my home, my home office in South Maui. And my husband has been relegated
to the kitchen office for today.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Counciimember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair. Good morning. Councilmembers.
... to all of you and to all of the people out there watching. Great, I stand in strong
solidarity of our brothers and sisters out there in Ukraine and praying for peace. I am
home alone in my office on Lanai.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Council, Counciimember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . and aloha kakahiaka kakou. Broadcasting live and direct
from the Old Lahaina Center with my EA Angela Lucero. And we both send our
condolences to Uncle Don Atay on the loss of his brother.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Good morning.
COUNTY CLERK: Counciimember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: . . . everybody. I'm here in Kula and enjoying a brisk
morning. And looking forward to this meeting.
CHAIR LEE: You're home alone?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm actually going to close the door, cause I can hear the
TV in the next room. My husbands in the next room. I'll be right back.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Excused for now.
COUNTY CLERK; And Chair Alice L. Lee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 3
CHAIR LEE: Did you call on Tasha Kama?
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, no I didn't. I didn't. E kala mai.
Pro, Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair. And good morning to our Clerk. And
kudos to your staff this morning, I so did appreciate being with them this morning. I am
here in my workspace. I am alone. And I'm looking forward to a great day with our
fellow Councilmembers. So, good morning. Chair. And-
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: --what was it? I had it right here. ... Aloha, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: . . . Right, . . . Thank you. And I am-
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair-
CHAIRLEE: Go ahead.
COUNTY CLERK: Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And I am here alone in my workspace. ... to everyone. Hopefully
we'll have a very efficient meeting today. And maybe we can have, have time to run
outtoKihei. We'll see. So, looking forward to a great Council meeting. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, KELLY T. KING. TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, NATALIE A. KAMA. YUKl LEI K. SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
PRESENT:
COUNCIL VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
(Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez vvas not present when the roll was called; however, she
arrived at 9:23 a.m.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are eight Members present, no Members absent, and one
Member excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 4
For the record, I am Kathy Kaohu, County Clerk. Also present from the Office of the
County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division staff
Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Opening remarks will be provided by Councilmember Kelly King.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Kelly King.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member King, for those beautiful and compelling remarks.
And now, Members, I ask you to join me in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please request that everyone
keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak. And decorum shall be
maintained at all times.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, currently, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
ceremonial resolutions. Currently, we have nobody signed up to testify for the
ceremonial resolution.
CHAIR LEE: Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: If anyone is wanting to. okay. Proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 5
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-72
HONORING THE REMARKABLE AND
LEGENDARY LIFE OF
THE LATE BETTY MAE LEIS
CHAIR LEE: Member King. Your motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: You know, I almost had to use my own "you're muted" sign.
Thank you, Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "HONORING THE REMARKABLE AND
LEGENDARY LIFE OF THE LATE BETTY MAE LEIS".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: It's been moved by Member King, second by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
resolution honoring the late Betty Mae Leis.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. May I please ask the Clerk to read the
resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
(The resolution w/as read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member King, any comments?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. As the resolution was read by the Clerk, just
FYI, it incorporates one nonsubstantive correction to the name of a recipient. Thank
you, Kathy Kaohu.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 6
As stated in the resolution the Clerk just read, Betty Mae Leis passed away peacefully
on January 15, 2022, at the age of 93 and was one of Maui's finest. She was well
known, highly regarded, and deeply admired by her friends, family and the community
at large. And, you know, after hearing that resolution, I think it would have been easier
to list the organizations she wasn't a member of. It seemed like she was involved in
everything.
And I didn't know her as well as you did, Chair. But the times that I had met her, she
spoke with such clarity, and thought, and caring about whatever she was talking about,
was really impressive. I knew, I know some of her family members, and I just, I, my
heart goes out to them for this loss. But, but my goodness, what a, what a great legacy
of sustainability to have been married to your first husband for 68 years. And I don't
think there's a better example of sustainability than that.
I also wanted to say that she was one of the . .  .of this island, of certainly of South
Maui. And we were blessed to have her with us and so involved and so actively
involved. So, she will be remembered for her kindness, compassion, generosity, sense
of humor, and steadfast belief that helping others was her calling to life. I respectfully
ask for the Members full support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Any other comments. Members?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Thank you very much. Madam Chair. And I want to thank
Councilmember King for this very well-deserved resolution for Mrs. Leis. And, you
know, wonderful thing about resolutions, you find out more about an individual that you
weren't aware of. And it's just amazing how much Mrs. Leis gave back to the
community, and the whole Lei's family, her late husband, Dorvin Leis. Very humble
people and very giving. And they don't, and they did it without a lot of fanfare. They
just went and just gave and gave back.
And certainly, they had, have a, have continued to, their business continues to thrive.
But when you, when you hear the company name, you think, you think of it as a
company with a lot of great respect and humility. So, she was truly a supermom, that's
for sure, you know, regarding all the things she did, and balancing work and, and the
needs of her family. So, we, we truly appreciate Mrs. Leis. And she certainly is the
epitome of aloha. And all of, on behalf of my family, all of our prayers and deepest
sympathies to the Leis ohana. Mahalo, Madam Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 7
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Member Molina.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you very much, Kelly King , for
bringing this forward. The Leis Family is truly a, excuse me, amazing. And I, too, have
had the opportunity and the privilege to get to speak with and get to know Dorvin, as
well as Betty, with the different activities that are going on that that have benefited the
community. And this family really gives from their heart. I have friends who have
worked for the company, and every year when pre-COVID, they would have these big
celebrations or gathering through the holiday just to say thank you to their employees.
Because, excuse me, they truly operated from their heart, excuse me, for the people
who helped them and always recognized what it takes to develop a company as strong
as they were. And true, the Leis would always donate to different non-profits and
support the missions and activities of those that help really provide the fire and the fuel
to keep them going for the people of Maui County. So, I appreciate this family a lot
and thank you very much. I, I fully support this. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you. Chair. You know, I just wanted to share a little
bit about my knowledge of Dorvin and Betty. I think it was like maybe 20 years ago or
something when I was at Paukukalo Hawaiian Homes. And, you know, we wanted to
do a pro, the Kuhio Day program for the community that year and we were looking for
funding. And so, one of the homesteaders said, let's go talk to Dorvin and Betty. And
I said, I don't even know them, and we were just going to go and ask them? They said,
yeah, but they usually do this. So, I said, okay, I'll go, because, you know, as one of
the, as the Chair, I said, okay.
And, you know, when we went to their office in Kahului, we sat with them and, you
know, they asked us what did we want? And we explained to them why we were there.
I got the sense, even though it was my first and almost first and last time I've ever met
them, that my sense of them was that their hearts were really here in our place, in our
space, that they love this community, that they love the Hawaiian people enough to
say anything for the kids. And that's what I remember them always saying anything for
the kids.
And so, when I think about them today. I'm very grateful for couples such as these.
And, and I know that we have, you know, their children almost take on the same
persona as their parents and I'm grateful for that too. So, I just want to say to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 8
family, imua. They come from good stock, and they will continue to be that solid rock
here on Maui County. So, thank you, Chair, for the opportunity.
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else? Okay. I'd like to say just a few words myself. Thank you to
Member King for, for making the motion on actually on our behalf, my family's behalf.
I met Betty Leis when I was about 25 years old and we both, both served on the board
of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Organization. And she was very, very active in
many, many nonprofit organizations, and was extremely devoted to her family.
Little did I know that one day we would become family, because my sister Mona's son
Kapena married her granddaughter. Her granddaughter is Jessica, the daughter of
Stephen and Sherry Leis. And so, our, our families are very close. And it gives us, it's
an honor to, to recognize her today and her many achievements.
After we vote. I'll be asking. I'll be asking members of the family to say a few words.
But I especially like what Pro Temp Kama said because, you know, Betty and Dorvin
were extremely generous philanthropists. But, you know, the rest of their family is the
same way, is the same way. Very caring, very warm, lots of aloha in that family. So,
I'm really glad that we're a part of it.
So, at this time. Members, are you ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion
please say "aye" and raise your hand.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.EXCUSED:
one "excused". The motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Thank you very much. Members.
And now, I would like to ask representatives of the family to, to say a few words. The
Leis Family, cause you can see them there. Aloha. Stephen, are you going to start
things off?
MR. STEPHEN LEIS: 1 think I will. I wasn't sure how I was going to handle this moment. But
1 got to tell you. I'm very touched by what I've just heard. Knowing all these things
about my mom and dad, and my mother in particular, you know, and to hear the
comments, was just, just really, really great to hear that. And when you talk about the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 9
ayes, my eyes are in favor and watering at the same time. So, we appreciate that,
Alice. We appreciate what you did. We appreciate the entire Council for what they've
done. And we'd like to mention Mona and Diane, who have been the contacts and
done a great job with us.
Of course, we know our mother was a great role model to us. She taught us very basic
old school values of being honest, and work hard, and thou shall not steal. I don't have
time to tell you that story when 1 was six years old, where mother took care of that for
a lifetime for me because I ended up with a piece of candy from a store that didn't
belong to me. And I had to go back shaking in my tennis shoes to the store manager
and confess. And so, from that day forward, I knew what belonged to me and what
didn't belong to me. But she was, she was quite a lady and we're very proud of her.
And, and again, we thank you and the Council for what you've done for us today.
CHAIR LEE: You're very welcome. Steve, are there other members who would like to say a
few words?
MR. STEPHEN LEIS: I think so. You know some of these people in the room. We're kind of
humble and shy as a group but, yeah, I think others might say something. So, we'll let
them volunteer on their own.
MR. STANLEY LEIS: I have just a few words.
CHAIR LEE: Could, could you identify yourself, please?
MR. STANLEY LEIS: I’m Stanley. I'm from Boise, Idaho. I'm the number three son. Mom
was all about love and aloha and you folks picked that up. And 1 think the community
sees it. And it's wonderful to have you recognize her. And we really appreciate that
as a family. It's really helpful at this time for us to have a community that's so strong
with aloha. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Stanley. Anyone else?
MR. CHUCK LEIS: Yeah, I want to add something. I'm Chuck. I'm the youngest, not the
baby of the family. I'm the youngest. Let's make sure that's clear, right now. We've
heard about all the, and thank you very much for this honor. It's, it's, it means a lot to
us. It really does. With everything going on in the world, that you took your time to
recognize mom right now is pretty special.
But I want to tell a little inside story. When we first moved to Maui in 1972, our furniture
hadn't arrived. We had a green couch in Kihei, in one room. And I just want to tell you
how mom took care of her kids and her flock. All of a sudden, she comes screaming
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 10
and says, everyone on the couch, right now. Get on the couch. And I thought what
the heck is going on? So, and it was just Nancy, Tim and I because the other kids
were older, so they didn't move over with us. So, everyone jumps on the couch. And I
thought, why are we here? She says, there's something in that bathroom. And I said,
what the heck is in the bathroom? So, I sneak off the couch being the, you know, the,
I guess the mischievous one that wants to see what's going on. I look around the
corner and I go, oh, my God, I run, and I jump back on the couch. What was in that
bathroom I, we never saw in California. This cockroach was so big . .. We sat on that
couch for two hours until dad came home to take care of that cockroach because no
one wanted to face off with that bugger. It was a scary sight, man. And now we all
know what cockroaches are, but we never knew they were that big. Holy mackerel.
But I just told you how much she took control of the situation to make sure everyone
was safe.
CHAIR LEE: That’s funny. Any-
MR. CHUCK LEIS: And I just got one more, one more little tidbit about mom and her
generosity, and dad. She always wanted to get us involved, when we first moved here,
and there was this thing called a canoe. And they were looking for volunteers to start
a club. And we are founding members of the club because of mom and dad. They
didn't have the funds to buy a canoe, but mom and dad helped with that first canoe.
And I paddled for Kihei Canoe for the first six years or so. And it really engrained me
in the community, the aloha spirit, and it taught me all about Hawaii. It was one of the
greatest aspects of the whole thing, and it's cause mom and dad wanted to get involved
and help out. And they really were founding members of that club. And it means a lot.
It stands strong right now on the island, and I'm proud to be a part of that. So, thank
you very much for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Chuck. Alright, thank you very much. And aloha and good wishes
to all of the Leis Family. Thank you.
MR. CHUCK LEIS: Thank you.
MR. STEPHEN LEIS; Thank you.
MR. STANLEY LEIS: Thank you.
LEIS FAMILY MEMBERS: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 11
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you, Chair. Moving on with the agenda, to set the Consent
Calendar.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Now Members, at this time we will set the Consent Calendar. As a
reminder, the calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are there any requested
changes to the Consent Calendar at this time? I don't see any hands. Any hands?
Okay. Any objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, no objections. So, ordered. The Consent Calendar is set.
Madam Clerk, please proceed with testimony. But before you do--
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the-
CHAIR LEE: Before you do, did I see Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez join the call?
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez arrived at the meeting at 9:33 a.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, good morning. Good morning. Let the record show that the Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez, Keani Rawlins-Fernandez has joined the meeting. Good morning.
Chair, and in accordance with the Governor'sVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
proclamation. I'm alone here at the Molokai District Office.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items.
Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by
phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 12
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by video conference should keep both their
video and microphones off and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda. And individuals may testify for
three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name of any
organization you represent, as well as the items in, on which you will be testifying.
Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku Maui Community Media
Channel 53, or on mauicounty.legistar.com. Individuals may also be disconnected
from the meeting at any time for breaking decorum.
Chair, the first person to testify is Travis Liggett. To be followed by Linda Schatz.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning. Staff, could you unmute Mr. Liggett? It seems like you're
unmuted on your side.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MR. TRAVIS LIGGETT ftestifvinq on Bill No. 52 (2022)1:
Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can. Alright.
MR. LIGGETT: Okay, sorry, my mic was not working. Good morning, Council. Thank you
for holding this meeting today. My name is Travis Liggett. I have a Maui small business
called Reef Power LLC. And I’m call. I'm calling to testify on Bill 52, which I helped to
write with Kelly King, which is intended to be a disinfection bill for effluent. And I came
to this point by developing a website called flushaware.com, which you can go to right
now, which is meant to educate users on the treatment level and destination of their
flush.
And what I found through that study is that as of 2016, all the three municipal facilities
had disinfection. But in 2017, disinfection was ceased in Kihei. And in 2018,
disinfection of injection well effluent was ceased in Kahului. And what we're seeing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 13
since 2017 is very high levels of indicator bacteria at Cove Park, enterococcus greater
than 2,005 NPN per 100 milliliters in May of 2018. And what I found through Freedom
of Information Act request is that Kihei is in the process of getting disinfection. The
DEM is installing it, and it should be in place by Fiscal Year 2023.
And inBut there are no near-term plans to install disinfection in Kahului.
correspondence with DEM, they cited the reasons for not installing disinfection for, for
injection wells as twofold. One, there is no law requiring it. And two, it would cause
rates to go up. And let me say, the DEM are heroes. They're up there with doctors
and firemen. They, they go into the wastewater plant every day, so these people are
heroes. This is an intellectual discussion about disinfection.
And furthermore, there is no disinfection standard for injection wells. So, what Kelly
has proposed is a law that simply requires disinfection of injection well effluent to the
standards of reuse. And, you know, the people that are vulnerable to this are the
people with comorbid conditions like eczema, FIIV AIDS, prednisone treatment, very
old, or very young, and also what I have which is lymphedema. And I've been
hospitalized for cellulite, cellulitis twice on the verge of death from systemic infections.
So, I strongly encourage you to pass this bill to the CARE Committee. These infected
flows go into humpback whale birthing areas. The reef at Kanaha has been completely
changed by the effluent there. So, please pass Bill 52 to Committee so that we can
require disinfection.
And finally, the DEM has cited about a $6 million cost to install disinfection in Kahului.
So, I encourage some private philanthropist to come forward and simply fund it. We
can transfer the funds through a memorandum of agreement process directly to the
County and simply get this done quickly. So, thank you for listening. Aloha.
CFIAIR LEE; Thank you. Are there any questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair.
CFIAIR LEE: Oh, we have one question.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, 1 just have one . . .
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you . . . Thank you. Chair. Thank you for being here,
Mr. Liggett. I'm sorry, but I was trying to write while you were talking. So, can you
please repeat what the cost would be to disinfect the Kahului area, you note.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 14
MR. LIGGETT; Yes. The DEM cited a $6 million cost which was based on the cost to add a
channel in Lahaina in 2015. There's also another estimate in a Brown and Caldwell
report from 2015 that put the cost around 7.5 or  8million. So, it's in that range. But
I'm going with the $6 million cause that's the latest estimate.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Um, thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Liggett, for your
testimony and your work on this. I just was wondering was there a reason why specific
plants had disinfection or were making plans for disinfection while others weren't?
MR. LIGGETT: Well, as of 2012, only Kahului had disinfection and both Kihei and Lahaina
did not. And then, around that time, my understanding is Robin Knox realized it and
then Steve Parabicoli got it done in Lahaina. And  Iunderstand there was some sort of
EPA direction that required it. But for some reason, that wasn't translated to the other
plants. But Lahaina got UV in 2015, Kihei got it in 2016. Then they took it away in
2017 in Kihei, took it away in Kahului in 2018. But Lahaina still has it. They have
almost zero fecal coliform in their effluent there. I don't know why they stopped in Kihei.
But I do know they stopped the chlorine disinfection in Kahului because it fell out of
favor because of its effects on reefs. But they didn't replace it with UV yet.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions? If not, thank you, Mr.-
Oh, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, he's talking about my Committee, so it's interesting.
So, do you have studies that, I know you mentioned the Brown and Caldwell, but do
you actually have like a proposal or something that is, is grounded in, you know, what
the 6 to 7.5 million is for?
MR. LIGGETT: I have only an official Freedom of Information Act request from the DEM
quoting this. It was like an official communication. But I think they're kind of ballparking
it too, just based on their previous experience. But that Brown and Caldwell study that
they really dug into it was from 2015. And I can send that to you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So. you think-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 15
MR. LIGGETT; And I also have all--
Yes, absolutely.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; No more questions. Thank you, Mr. Liggett.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Linda Schatz. To be followed by Mike Moran.
MS. LINDA SCHATZ (testifying on Resolution No. 22-68);
Hello. My name is Linda Schatz and I'm a representative of the 201H Wailuku
Apartment Project located in Wailuku Town. It's right across the Foodland that's
located at the Kehalani Village Center, bordered by East Kuikahi, Waiale, and
Honoapiilani Highway. I'm actually testifying, thank you for letting me testify today,
Chair, Councilmembers, Vice-Chair. I'm actually testifying on Resolution 22-68 today,
seeking an extension on our District Boundary Amendment.
Our project, which is 324 units, has 195 units that are affordable with, dictated by our
201H. We got that approved in 2018. And in 2019, we actually extended our 201H
because there was a major regional sewer line that needed to be built. We helped to
contribute to that design and permitting of that sewer line, spending a few hundred,
hundreds of thousands of dollars on that to ensure that the regional area had sewer
flow to also benefit not just our project, but other projects as well. That actually delayed
our project so that we did request that 201H extension in 2019, which was unanimously
approved.
What we failed to do was actually also get a extension on our District Boundary
Amendment. And so, that's why we are here today supporting this resolution. The
resolution allows us to align the 201H schedule along with the District Boundary
Amendment. We are currently, and have been over the many months, working on our
project permitting. We are in for permits and we anticipate to actually start our
construction based on our 201H deadline for mass grading in May. So, we're working
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 16
towards that. We currently have an investor to help us fund the $120 million needed
to build this project. And one of the requirements for financing is to get this extension
so that every discretionary approval is in place to move forward.
So, we humbly ask you today to support that resolution. What's also really important
is that during this time with COVID, potential variance that could come about, and we
are grappling with inflation and high increases in costs, the extension time period
factors in any potential unforeseen things that might happen in our volatile world. And
as with what's happening with the war, currently right now, and the market, we are very
cognizant that we, we, we need to ensure enough time to be able to finish this project.
But that doesn't mean we aren't going to move as fast as we can to deliver
195 workforce rental affordable units to Maui County and its people. So, I, I humbly
ask for your support and hope you can support us going forward. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Schatz.
Questions, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I have a number of questions. But I was
wondering if anyone was making the motion to take it up today, then maybe we can
ask Ms. Schatz to be a resource when that item comes up, or when it comes up in
Committee, if not today? So that we can get along with the rest of the testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Yeah, I, I would like to bring it up today, if, and, and make
you know, have action on it.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, at that time. Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. At that time. So, we will ask Ms. Schatz, would you be able to stay for
discussion when the item comes up?
MS. SCHATZ: Absolutely, yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. I'm not sure exactly what time, but after, after testimony.
Okay. Alright. Thank you. Any more questions for Ms. Schatz? If not, thank you very
much. We'll see you later.
And then. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 17
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Mike Moran. To be followed by Lucienne
de Naie.
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ftestifvina on Bill No. 58 (2022)]:
Good morning, Chair Lee and Counciimembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association. And no, I realize today is not, it's not yet St. Patty's Day, but I am decked
out in green because we're asking for support of Bill 58. And our segment in there
concerns green bike lanes.
And when we have to drill down to see what's the importance of this, you know, and
the world situation when we see catastrophic conditions, and even in our own County
and our own island, that sea level rise and the lack of homes for people, where do we
get to the import of getting a bike lane painted green? Well, one reason is it's a potential
lifesaver and it can encourage bicycle, bicycling because it can make bicycling safer.
And when we hear parents say, I will not let my child bicycle to school because it's
unsafe, this as a pilot project is one segment that has been proven in many, many
places, including right over in Honolulu, that if you paint a bike lane a solid green, so
it's a segment rather than the traditional white line on the side of the road, that drivers
are more prone not to edge into it, not to park. And many, many drivers don't really
realize the difference in a bike lane and a shoulder. But if it's a bright painted green,
just like people say to me, how come you're wearing green today, bright green? It
grabs attention.
And we have to give big mahalos to our South Maui Representative King and her team,
who have diligently helped us. We've been trying to get this done for many, many
years. And our emphasis and, and action on it continue to get strong. We didn't seem
to make headway. We would have discussions with Public Works and get a lot of head
nodding. Yes, we saw those when we did a trip over to California and Northwest, and
we saw those. But nothing would ever happen.
So, Kelly King took action and got $10,000 put in  aSouth Maui fund so that we could
participate in this as a public-private partnership. But even that effort didn't succeed.
We kept running into hurdles and obstacles. And so it was, we were running out of
time. They told us if we're not, didn't take action on a grant with support of the
Department by March 1, the grant was going to die. So, again, Kelly and her staff took
action and has the Department's agreement that they will take over the project. So,
we have to agree to back away from the grant. So, the $10,000 will not be granted to
us, but it will go to the Department so that they can do the project.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 18
And as a parting, I know I'm a little bit over, I'll try and be quick. As a parting gift to us,
Dagdag-Andaya, the parting Director, did agree to this as a parting gift to us, that they
will take over the project. So, we ask for your support of Bill 58 today. Mahalo for the
opportunity.
CHAIR LEE; Thanks, Mike. Questions, Members, if not, thank you very much.
MR. MORAN: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by Blossom
Feiteira.
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE rtestifvina on Resolution Nos. 22-62. 22-67. 22-69. 22-70. 22-71
22-73. & 22-74: and Bill Nos. 3.CD1 (2022): 9, CD1 (2022): 10. CD1 (2022): 23. CD1:
47 (2022): 48 (2022): 52 (2022): & 59 (2022)1:
Aloha. Good morning. Thank you for this inspirational start for the morning, honoring
the Leis Family. And yeah, it's, one person can really make a difference and one family
can really make a difference in our community.
I'd like to testify. You have a full agenda, and I'd like to testify first on a couple of bills
that are going to be referred. Bill 52, hopefully this will be referred to the CARE
Committee. I'm, I'm really grateful to Travis Liggett for giving us a little bit of a
background, because it is hard to understand exactly what's happening with our
wastewater treatment plants.
it does appear that one of the reasons that disinfection did come to the Lahaina plant
is because there was a consent decree over the water quality there for many, many
years. And then, citizens focused on that consent decree and eventually asked the
plant when dye studies were done showing that the effluent was getting on the reefs.
They asked the plant to apply for the proper Federal permit, which went all the way to
the U.S. Supreme Court. So, it does seem that there was a little impetus there to sort
of improve the water quality.
But all of our plants do really need to meet these standards. And I just have to say, as
a citizen activist, we hear complaints about people getting staph infections in Cove
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 19
Park where a lot of folks surf, a lot of families surf. And also, in the waters there along
the Kanaha Park and the Kahului Coast where the effluent is discharged from the
Kahului Plant. So, it is the 21st Century. Perhaps, we can look at some of the Federal
infrastructure money, if it ever materializes, and see if some of that can apply this way.
But we really do need to do something. So, thank you for sending this bill on. And the
CARE Committee really has a lot of expertise on these, these things and seems to be
getting a good job done. So, it'd be great to send it there.
I'd like to also address Bill 59, which I assume is also going to be referred to maybe
the Infrastructure and Transportation Committee. Not, not sure exactly where it's going
to end up. But this is about upgrading our Plumbing Code. Well, of course, it's
wonderful. It's 2022 that we should be using a more up to date Plumbing Code.
However, I don’t know how many of the Councilmembers are actually going to read
what's in the Code, you know. I, I'm going to try to, to plow through it.
But the question I have is, how is this going to affect people who are trying to get after
the fact permits, which are very common in rural areas? I am on that list myself. And
have perfectly serviceable plumbing that probably won't meet the new codes that they
might have to tear out. Now, a lawfully permitted buildings don't have to do that. But
an after the fact permit assumes that there wasn't a lawful permit back 20, 30, 40 years
ago. And this is so common in the rural areas, you know. Just people didn't get
permits. People like me bought property that they could afford that had one permitted
structure, and others that weren't permitted.
So, and can we really have a Code that starts to deal with the fact in rural areas that
we have limited water supply, and we don't have County water? And it actually would
be better for us to have an easier time having non-flush toilets and having things that
could really save water, like greywater systems that can use water twice. So, does the
new Code really make the flexible provisions for these? As you folks discuss it, I hope
that this is kept in mind because many folks on Maui do not live in urban areas, and
yet, they need to build and maintain their, their structures.
Moving onto the bills that are up for second and final reading, just being brief. Strongly
support Bill 3, to get some funding available for the Kepaniwai Heritage Park and
restore our Hawaiian hale there.
Bill 9 and 10, to issue the Bonds to deal with the higher than expected bid for the much
much needed Haiku restroom replacements.
Bill 23, which provides funding for an energy and water audit for our public buildings. I
think in the end, this could actually save us a lot of money. It's my understand that the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 20
County is Maui Electric's largest customer, so don't want to diss Maui Electric. But if
the County could save some money there, it would be good for all of us.
And then. Bill 47 and 48, providing a couple million dollars to finally, finally get that
50-acres that was promised so long ago for a regional park, a new regional park in
West Maui. 1 know the, the sports teams there really need more facilities. You know,
the area is growing, and we really should be planning for the future and have enough
park space to give quality of life for the, the many, many residents in the west side.
I would also like to support the appointment resolutions, 22-62 of Donna Sterling to the
Board of Water Supply; and 22-67, Scott Crawford being reappointed to the Hana
Advisory Committee. They are both very worthwhile individuals who have proven their
community service for many years, and we're fortunate that they continue to volunteer.
As for the other resolutions, I signed up for a number 22-70 and 70, excuse me, 22-70,
relating to the transient accommodation caps. This is an item that's in the news, what
with the discussion of the balance between resident housing and visitor housing. And
so, in, in seeking that balance, adjusting the caps makes sense. So, it's a good thing
that we have this under discussion.
And then, item 22-71 and 74, relating to helicopter overflights. I have to say. I've
experienced this myself living out in Huelo, where I guess rumor had it that George
Harrison lived here, which he didn't. But we used to have nine helicopter flights a day
flying over our local waterfall. You could tell time by them. And for my husband, who's
a Vietnam vet, the noise was not pleasant, it reminded him of very unpleasant things.
So, if, if we, I know Waikapu has issues with helicopters and some of the other
communities do as well. So, establishing this roundtable would be great. I hope our
Congressional delegation has their ears open. But this is a good first step.
And thank you also to the Council for putting forward a resolution to support designation
of the Lahaina Aquifer Sector. This Aquifer Sector, you know, as probably some of you
know, certainly Ms. Paltin has many, many conflicts over water uses. And the State
Water Code says when you have all these conflicts going on, you really need to make
sure that there is some sort of referee. And by designating it as a Water Management
Area, you can have the State Water Commission, its staff, and other agencies step in
to help make sure that there is a water justice and water equality. It's not a perfect
solution, but it's the best one we have under our laws.
And then the last thing I signed up to testify for was Resolution 22-61 [sic]. This is the
transfer of, I believe some of the Kahului park lands to Hale Makua. Of course, we're
all going to need Hale Makua's services, and we need them to be able to do their, their
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 21
job efficiently and effectively. And they, they have done a wonderful job of kupuna care
in our community.
However, this, this area that's being transferred, it's my understanding, is basically a
sand dune area. And I'm not sure if plans have changed, but there were community
concerns. I'm not sure if you all are aware of, about the dune formations and the
likelihood that iwi kupuna are in these dunes, because most of the dunes in Maui were
used as traditional burial grounds by Hawaiians, really up until probably the, you know,
early 1900's. But across the span of, of centuries. So, if there is any way to make sure
that the plans do not include disturbing the dunes, that would be very, very beneficial.
So, thank you for your time and attention for this long, long testimony. You guys are
busy and good luck on your deliberations.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Lucienne. Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. DE NAIE: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Blossom Feiteira. To be followed by Kanoelani
Steward.
CHAIR LEE: Blossom Feiteira.
MS. BLOSSOM FEITEIRA ftestifvina on Resolution No. 22-73: and Bill Nos. 3. CD1 (2022):
and 53 (2022)1:
Hi. Aloha, Chair. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. FEITEIRA: . . . sitting outside my kitchen door. Mahalo, Madam Chair and Members of
the Council for the opportunity to testify on several items on your agenda today. For
the record, my name is Blossom Feiteira. And I am testifying on item L, Resolution
22-73, item N, Bill 53, and item O, Bill 3, CD1.
Regarding Resolution 22-73, I would ask for the support of the Council in the
designation of the Lahaina Aquifer Sector as a Surface and Ground Water
Management Area. You know, this designation provides for the preservation of the
public trust resource on the west side. And it also provides for equitable distribution to
meet the priorities outlined in the Water Code.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 22
Number two, it preserves the right of kuleana landowners on the west side to continue
the traditional customary agricultural practices. That is identified in the Kuleana Land
Act of 19, of 1850. But most importantly, this designation can provide for additional
streamflow on the west side, and which will help the rest, to restore the muliwai that
will begin to combat the degradation of our shoreline ecosystem that's been impacted
by the continued aggressive diversion methods over the past hundred years.
As a child growing up in Lahaina, the muliwai was still active. We had, still, access to
the limu, to fish, to opihi, to hokioki. And as I got older and began to see and witness
that the smaller the muliwai got, the less fish, the less limu, the less food sources were
made available to us. And it was heartbreaking to finally have kupuna tell us that we
should no longer gather in those areas because the ecosystem was so degraded that
the fear was if we continued to gather there would be nothing left.
I am 60 years old, and the muliwai has literally disappeared from the west side. And
as a result, we continue to see further degradation of our ecosystem at the shoreline.
This designation can now be a part of the solution for kanaka on the west side to begin
to restore those traditional customary practices when it comes to the gathering on the
shoreline.
Regarding item N, Bill 53, it establishes a new chapter regarding a Feral Animal
Management Fund. As we all know, over the past couple of years, particularly from
this pandemic, we have seen an inundation of feral ungulates having such a
devastating impact on our farmers and on our ecosystem and our environment. This
fund will be, you know, very beneficial to our community in that it can pay for the
necessary work needed to remove these ungulates and then develop a long-term
management plan that can benefit not just our farmers, but our communities in general.
As you know. Madam Chair, deer has been sighted at the airport on the tarmac. It's
been sighted in our parks. And there are instances on the island of Lanai and Molokai
where neighborhoods were stripped clean of plants. Communities were just not, there
was no plants for them to be able to take care of. And so, we want to be able to develop
a plan at the County level to be able to take advantage of this opportunity. So, thank
you for that.
Did 1 freeze?
CHAIR LEE: Blossom, we can still hear you.
MS. FEITEIRA; Oh, okay. 1 thought, okay, my screen is frozen, but that's okay. And then,
item zero. Bill 3, is your, is a budget bill for the Department of Parks and Recreations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 23
So, the, and I want to talk specifically to Section 2, item E.7., and request that the
funding amount for capital improvement projects for Parks and Rees include funding
necessary to address the permanent closure of Puamana Park due to, due to the
erosion and the presence of iwi kupuna.
The County ordinance, and it's 13-04A-040 [sic], under operational policy, does not
provide for a permanent closure. It does provide for procedures in which to notify the
County Council of the action, and an opportunity to develop a plan to address the
issues and challenges and develop mitigation methods that will allow for the park to be
reopened. I've checked the Parks and Rees calendar and have not seen any kind of
reports or biweekly reports on the status of the park.
I attended a meeting back in November of last year where Corp. Counsel Mimi
DesJardins, stated that the park is permanently closed with no due process for the
community. And while I understand that there is a consideration for health and safety,
as well as the preservation of our iwi kupuna there, the rules allow for us to be able to
have that conversation. And we have not yet had it. And it's been two years, Madam
Chair.
Again, as a, growing up in Lahaina, Puamana was a place where kupuna would take
us keikis to begin the process of passing on knowledge in traditional customary
practices. We knew then that kupuna was present there. And just having that
knowledge curtailed our behavior. And as a result of that experience, I had the
opportunity and privilege to take my children there to teach them the same things I
learned. This closure now prevents me from taking my grandchildren there to pass on
the knowledge.
And so, for me, it's important that we have this conversation because Puamana Park
is a very special place for many of us in the west side community, and for various
reasons,
participate in developing a plan of action, we will continue to be denied the opportunity
to take part in a very special place for generations to come. And with that. Madam
Chair, again, I thank you for the opportunity to testify on these items. And I look forward
to seeing further discussion and opportunities to success. Mahalo.
But I think that until we can have that conversation, and until we can
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Blossom. Questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you. Blossom. On the last item that
you were testifying, what was the item number?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 24
MS. FEITEIRA: It was Bill 3, CD1. It's under item  0on your agenda.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, so I see. That's Kepaniwai Park, but you're talking
about Puamana, is that correct?
MS. FEITEIRA: Yeah. So, under Section 2, item E.7., there is a CIP, a budget item for Parks
and Rees. And all I noticed on there was improvements for the Lahaina Civic Center.
And so, I'm asking for inclusion of Puamana Park in that.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, I see. I see what you're doing. Okay, thank you very
much. Blossom. Cause I know you; you are passionately involved in this. So, okay,
thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Feiteira, for your testimony.
I just wanted to ask, or clarify, in the meeting that we were in that evening with the
Parks Department and the stakeholders, I thought that they clarified that traditional and
customary rights wouldn't bar you from access to Puamana Park. But you testified that
you are barred.
MS. FEITEIRA: Well, and the reason why I'm barred is simply because, what we get to do is
we get to face a chain link fence around the entire property. We also get to see a sign
that threatens criminal action, right, criminal penalties for access. Nothing in the sign,
first of all, indicates an exception for traditional customary practices.
Number two, the parking lot is locked up. If I was to take my grandchildren against that
busy highway, I subject my grandchildren to potential harm. Number two, if somebody
decides, and we all know this happens, somebody decides to call the police saying that
I'm trespassing, my grandchildren get to see a heinous activity against their
grandmother. And I'm not willing to take that risk, okay. What I'm asking for-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you for that information.
MS. FEITEIRA: Oh, you're welcome. Thank you for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? If not, thank you very much. Blossom.
MS. FEITEIRA: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 25
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Kanoelani Steward. To be followed by
Kalama'ehu Ta, Takahashi, excuse me.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
MS. KANOEU\Nl STEWARD (testifying on Resolution No. 22-73):
Aloha kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. STEWARD: Okay, awesome. Aloha kakou.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
As a West Maui community member, I support the Resolution 22-73, that was
introduced by Councilmember Tamara Paltin, in supporting the designation of the
Lahaina Aquifer Sector as a separate water and ground water management area.
As the resolution states, the current and authorized planned uses of the Honokowai
and Launiupoko aquifer systems are way over our sustainable yields. Our sustainable
yields are supposed to be a rate of pumping that can be maintained and sustained
without harming the overall water source. However, reported pumpage rates for these
aquifer systems are well over 100 percent. This should alarm all of us. especially since
we project a 67 percent increase in water consumption in West Maui by 2035.
It's 2022, 2022, and we're already over our sustainable yields. These water uses, these
water usages are and will continue to affect the availability of water for public trust uses,
which in turn will negatively impact our Native Hawaiian practices. The prior
designation can only benefit the present and future needs of the people of West Maui,
while also upholding the law of protecting our fish and wildlife habitats and our
traditional and customary Hawaiian rights, all while regulating non . . . uses.
I urge all the Councilmembers of the County of Maui, as well as the Mayor, to support
the designation of the Lahaina Aquifer Sector as  aSurface Water and Ground Water
Management Area. And as stated in the resolution, also urge the Mayor and
Department of Water Supply to collaboratively work with CWRM to manage and protect
. . . water sources in West Maui to ensure reasonable, beneficial use of the water for
our community. Mahalo nui for your time today. Aloha nui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 26
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? If not, thank you very much, Ms. Steward.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Kalama'ehu Takahashi. To be followed by Keeaumoku
Kapu.
MR. KALAMA‘EHU TAKAHASHI (testifying on Resolution No. 22-73):
Aloha. Good morning, Chair and Councilmembers. Mahalo for the opportunity to
testify this morning. Apologies, I won't be activating my video, as I am currently driving
through the airport in Honolulu. So, it's getting  alittle logistically interesting. But aloha.
Mahalo again for the opportunity to testify this morning. I am testifying in support of
item L, the Resolution 22-73, in support of the, the designation of the, the ground and
surface water aquifers for the, for the Lahaina area. I just wanted to echo and then
support the testimony that was previously given by Kanoelani Steward, and then, and
by others that are in support of this thing.
But 1 think it's, more so for me as a community member, like it's interesting to see how
long these longstanding battles have been going on between Kuleana landholders, and
the Native Hawaiian community, and the large, and then these large-scale land
companies, such as Launiupoko Irrigation System, for whom people have been fighting
for a good portion of their lives and even for generations to sort of preserve their right
to this, to this public trust resource, yeah.
And so, 1 cannot, ! cannot list all of the manao that I have right now. Traffic is major.
But just to keep it short, I'm in support of this resolution. And I hope that the County
will pass it on the floor. So, mahalo to everybody who has testified before, and blazed
the trail for us. And mahalo to those that have support this. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, I hope you don't have questions. He's driving, you know.
We don't want him to get hurt or anything. But do you have any questions? If not,
thank you so much, Mr. Takahashi.
Okay, so. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Keeaumoku Kapu. To be followed by William
Wood.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 27
MR. KEEAUMOKU KAPU [testifying on Resolution No. 22-73: and Bill No. 3, CD1 (2022)1:
Aloha kakou. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Good morning.
MR. KAPU: Good morning, Council. Mahalo for the touching words this morning. It was
really, really heartfelt on this side of the west side, so mahalo for that. I'm testifying for
item L, Reso 22-73. And I feel that this reso is very important because the Lahaina
region has experienced a steady decreasing rainfall and streamflow in the recent years.
So, this designation and the permitting requirements is critical to address water
availability brought on by climate change.
You know, in the past, we always had to look behind us. You know, there's, there's
always a saying that I ka wa ma mua, ka wa ma hope, that we got to look to the past
for solutions of today. And these are one of those touchy situations when you have
major conflicts and disputes of water uses in our community, that our kupuna in the
past had to deal with. How they needed to place basic kapus on certain wahi pana or
moku because of the downgrade desecration. And I know that testifier before also said
that we losing, you know, species and fauna, like limu and things like that. So, the
kapu was really important back then when the konohiki had to apply these stringent
rules on certain places, that what you could do and what you couldn't do.
This is a perfect example of doing something that is proactive to make sure that we
have a balance of there, and we have an entity to look at, you know, the water use of
this whole West Maui regions. And for us, you know, I am a kuleana. I live in Kauaula
Valley and my battles and disputes hasn't ended. And in despite of the victories that
came about in my land case, it still puts me up against the wall a lot of times.
And now, we have to go to figuring out how much water we can be granted for the
cultivation of kalo and making sure that we have water in the streams for the instream
flows so we can bring that, that equilibrium. So, we can look at whether or not the kapu
system is working or isn't working. And I think that's why it's important that designating
this area, this aquifer area, at least we going to have somebody there kind of monitoring
what needs to happen, what, what doesn't need to happen, how many development is
happening, how much of the volume of water that is needed for these affordable
developments.
So, I'm really, really emphasizing and hope that this Council really takes into
consideration to also supporting the resolution, and also sending its support to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 28
Mayor to also support the resolution of the designation on the ground and surface water
aquifer. And mahalo.
And there's another point I wanted to bring up too, and that’s what Blossom Feiteira
brought up about Puamana Park. We with Na Aikane ‘O Maui Cultural Center for years
have been trying to deal with the shoreline erosion of that park. And what's been
coming about in the shoreline is a lot of our iwi kupuna have been washing up. And
it's not just one part of the park. It's all the way to Guardrails. So, I would say within, I
would say maybe a 100-yard distance from the park, the parking lot area down towards
Guardrails. So, I know it's frustrating. You know, I mahalo the Mayor for taking a role
that he did by saying that we need to shut down the park because of safety reasons.
And I go down there pretty much every day and we have family that go down there to
comb the coastline because of a lot of things have been happening, especially when
tourists start taking skulls to the hotel. These are the kind of things that actually
happen. And I get calls from SHPD that there's another discovery. Na Aikane ‘O Maui
is recognized as a repository, yeah, where I can receive iwi kupuna at my building.
And I have been for the past two years. I had one box, now I got five. Now, with the
help of the County, as well as the help of SHPD, we've been putting together a burial
treatment plan. And that needs to be taken care of first, by bringing the kupuna back
to where they're originally came from.
And now, I'm glad that the County is starting to see that that area shouldn't have been
designated as a park. It should have been designated as a graveyard, as it was stated
in the maps and the thing that we produced for, for the County consideration of why
this place is important. The long-term management plan, later, we're hoping that we
can bring in a lot of stakeholders to talk about that, on how we can provide more
information on how this area needs to be protected. And that's the first priority,
because I get 12 individuals that I need to reinter back at that park.
Once we take care of those things, when we, once we take care of the iwi kupuna of
that area by involving a lot of the lineal descendants and the cultural descendants, then
we're going find one sure plan on how we going to protect them and how we can also,
in conjunction with the County, and in conjunction with other organizations that is willing
to help in stopping the shoreline erosion from happening at a rapid pace. I think the
2030 plan the County had that Puamana Park is going to be gone by 2030, even 2040.
There's a building adjacent to Puamana that is actually on the verge of falling into the
ocean. So, there's, there's a lot of things that we need to discuss.
And I just wanted to reassure again that Native Hawaiians will never lose their access
rights. And I know that parking is a situation, but hopefully when we take care the iwi
kupuna, we can also take care of the, and address the needs of the general community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 29
If anybody wanted to also kuka or be involved, I can be reached. And right now, we at
the process of getting an ROE so we can do the work that we need to do.
So, I mahalo this Council for this opportunity for me to testify on those two items. The
first item is really important to us and the second item is even way more important on
how we need to maiama that area and also place that area not as a park, but maybe
as a burial reserve, which it's supposed to have been in the beginning. So, mahalo no
kakou. And I'm happy to answer any of your questions.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you so much. You know, ! have to apologize. The Puamana, I
don't believe is on the agenda. Kepaniwai is. But since Blossom brought it up, I
thought, you know, we'd let you go on the subject. So, do we have questions on
Kepaniwai?
Member Paltin? Oh, you're muted. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair, it's not on Kepaniwai. I think the reason
we're having this testimony on Puamana is because the Parks Department is, by the
Code, supposed to give a report to the Council when they close the park. And they've
been alerted that, at a previous meeting, that we've had with community stakeholders.
And yet, it hasn't come up before us and it's, it's been over a month. But I think that's
the reason why they're trying to fit it in any, any other item. So, it's not realty a question,
it's just asking if the Parks Department can please do that, because otherwise we'll
have this type of intrusion into other agenda items that they can fit, fit to. So, that's my
only comment, that it's a violation of the Code right now by not making that report to
us. And it's been closed for over a year.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, any more comments or questions for the testifier? Questions? if
not, thank you, Keeaumoku.
MR. KAPU: Keani had a question.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Keani had her hand up. I saw-
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, Keani. Go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry, Chair. Mahalo. I just, I just wanted to reiterate
what it was that you, you stated. And the purpose is because of Sunshine Law and
the bill, that's Bill 3, only the underlined part is Kepaniwai and that's the bill. That's the
amendment, and not the entire CIP Operating Bill. But, but I understand what our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 30
Lahaina West Maui testifiers are saying. And our Parks Committee Chair could always
bring it up as a discussion item under Council Rule B, and then perhaps we can have
the discussion there. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Pro Temp Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
MR. KAPU: Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Since you said questions or comments, I have a comment.
Thank you. Thank you. So, when
CHAIR LEE; Was this for Mr., is this, is this for Mr. Kapu?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, I just wanted to let him know that I have been watching this
issue. And my understanding was that the lineal descendants were in discussion. And
when the discussion with the lineal descendants were complete, then she would let me
know, then I'd bring it to the Committee for all of us to hear. And that was my
understanding.
So, if Mr. Kapu is saying that you're, you are prepared and you are ready, then I will be
ready. And probably not until, 1 guess after Budget, cause we have no more meetings,
right? But, Mr. Kapu, for your own peace of mind and heart, I will take this up. So,
thank you, Chair, for the opportunity. And thank you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members?
MR. KAPU: If I can?
CHAIR LEE; Go ahead.
MR. KAPU: If I can just make one last comment.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead.
MR. KAPU: If I may? Yeah, we are right now also preparing because of the burial treatment
plan, we've been working with the State. So, that's kind of a separate issue, yeah, on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 31
how we going put iwi kupuna back in the designated area. But then, also, we are also
preparing to do a presentation in front of the Planning Department whenever time is
available for us. And hopefully, we can bring up, open up more of the dialogue on the
long-term management plan, which would involve a lot of people from community. So,
we was also mentioning about doing a, a Zoom, possibly Zoom meeting or an upfront
meeting with a lot of people that have, or stakeholders that have an interest.
Just so happened today, we were doing a site visit down there to get more in, in, manao
from a lot of the descendants, because these burials have been with me for two years.
And they're ready to go home. So, that’s a main priority for us. E kala mai if this thing
has been kind of spinning in maybe a violation of Sunshine Law. But I hope that we
can clear that up once we get iwi kupuna back. Now that the State and the County has
worked in tandem on how we can resolve the situation pertaining to the burials, then I
think the long-term management plan of the whole park will come after that. So,
mahalo. Mahalo for your consideration. Council. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is William Wood. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
MR. WILLIAM WOOD (testifying on Resolution No. 22-73):
Aloha. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, morning.
MR. WOOD: My name is William Wood. My family and  Iare Honokohau Valley residents.
We support Resolution 22-73, and also support CWRM's recommendation to designate
the Lahaina Aquifer Sector as both ground and surface water management area.
Living in Honokohau Valley, we have seen firsthand the mismanagement of water use.
Here are a few examples: the County Department of Water Supply has a bridge in
Honokohau Valley used to hold water lines above the river. It was originally built by
Maui Land & Pine and ... It was taken over by the DWS in 2000. The bridge failed in
February 2018. The DWS was aware that their bridge system was obstructing the
width of the river, but nothing was done about it because the water lines were still
functioning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 32
In September 2018, during Tropical Storm Olivia, this broken bridge captured many
large logs and debris flowing downstream, which created a large dam that eventually
broke free, sending catastrophic flooding below, destroying land, homes and loi. After
the flood, Ayron Strauch, a CWRM hydrologist, came up to the area to look to help
clarify what exactly had happened. Here are a few pictures taken in March 2018,
before Tropical Storm Olivia. I don't know if you folks can see it.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we can see it.
MR. WOOD: This is the bridge structure.
CHAIR LEE: We can see it. Yes.
MR. WOOD: This is laying across the stream, basically at water level, one shot. Here's
another angle of it. See, the whole length of the bridge there, basically sitting in the
stream. Okay. Notice how there are multiple pipes running across the bridge. All of
these pipes are not in use except for one line. This clearly shows that over the years,
new water lines were added on top of old lines, and old lines were not removed,
essentially leaving rubbish in the stream and on adjacent properties.
After the storm, DWS needed to fix, needed to fix their water line. And here's a photo
of the fixed job. You folks can see that well, just the cable with the pipes suspended
from it. This photo was taken yesterday. Notice that the new line is hanging within the
reach of high water. Here are two more photos taken yesterday of the metal bridge
structure and the old water lines. This is what it looks like after the flood, what was
pushed up onto the side of the stream. It's still wet, filled with debris. And this is on
the ocean side in, over 50-feet of this metal structure still laying in the stream today.
Dm, here we are. It seems the importance of cleanup has been overlooked. But it is
a hazard to the families downstream when high water comes.
After Tropical Storm Olivia, the flow, the flow in the stream was greatly diminished. We
repeatedly tried to contact MLP to restore the water flow but did not receive a response.
Meanwhile, MLP was wasting the water which was flowing into the ocean at Hanakaoo.
And it's documented in the 2019 CWRM wastewater complaint. What is causing this
negligence? We believe it is a lack of regulations, enforcements, and a general
oversight.
We strongly support CWRM to designate West Maui as a surface and ground water
management area so that we can assure that the use of our precious water resource
can be reasonable and beneficial for the future of our small island. Thank you very
much.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 33
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Wood.
Oh. Pro Temp Kama, you have a question?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Wood, for being
here. So, sir, were you able to put your testimony and, and those pictures into a
testimony and submit it to the Committee? To the Council?
MR. WOOD: 1 have not yet. I've not yet, but I can. And 1 have quite a few more pictures, if
you'd like to see them?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. As part of your testimony, yes, I would support, I would
appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. WOOD: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you, Mr. Wood.
Madam Clerk--
MR. WOOD: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: -is this the last testifier, cause we're ready for our morning break?
COUNTY CLERK; Our second to the last testifier, our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be
followed by the last testifier. Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Good morning, Junya. You're muted. You're muted. Try turn on your
mic. Okay, very good. Very good. What happened? We can’t hear you. You're mic
looks like it's on. It's on.
MR. JUNYA NAKOA [testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-53 & 22-61: Resolution
No. 22-73: and Bill No. 47 (2022)1:
Hello? Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, now we can.
MR. JUNYA: Alright. Okay. I going watch my colorful language. Okay, Bill 47. I talking
about em cause the thing says West Maui Parks, yeah. And, you know this buggah, I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 34
live at, I live at the park. Well I just wanted for say about two baseball parks over here
in Lahaina. The Napili one, which I there every day and the Lahaina one, which I there
at least twice a week cause we play games over there.
I just like commend Eddie Curimao and his boys for making the field up to par and safe
for our kids for play on top. And I know we was talking about. . . that I going make my
kids pull weeds and take care their, their position and all that stuff. And you know what,
Eddie when go get me some string so they can rake the whole field. And i, I, I already
getting my kids for take some action. So, we going pull weeds like that. So, I decided
for mahalo Lahaina Parks.
But again, we still gotta fix the playground over there at the Lahaina Recreational Park,
cause the buggah stay all buss up. And no more shade. Lahaina, as you guys know,
is a hotspot, so we need one shade overthat playground. Cause kinda podageeyeah,
in Napili we get the shade, i not grumbling, but Napili get the shade and Lahaina no
more. So, I think we should put a shade above the Lahaina park one, cause the
buggahs, they going wear hot okole's. Okay, that one pau.
Now, I going talk about the 22-73, the aquifer for Lahaina. Yeah, like everybody was
saying, yeah, we need urn. And, you know, we gotta protect the kuleana, you know,
all that kine stuff. 1 had the privilege to go up to Kauaula Valley, the Palakiko place.
And we, a bunch of keikis that when go clean the lois up there, and the thing was with
Kanoe Steward and couple more kumus that when teach these kids all the stuff about
the water. You know, we gotta protect the water, we gotta use this, and all that stuff.
And was beautiful. So, I think this will be the first step in urn, and I think that going
make the kids happy about urn and get more active into protecting our water and our
resources. So, I mahalo all the kumus that was up there, cause was awesome. And
yeah, okay, I pau with that one. Wait for the next one.
Okay, the next one is the Planning Department, deputy, the Director's report, 22-61,
you know, about, you know, permits and all that. Kinda like know what's the follow-up
on the Greg Brown permitting thing, cause the thing had the stop work order. Now, the
buggah, now they working on um. They when lift the stop work order all over, again,
you know. And so, what's the follow-up on that? We like know what's going on. We
like know what changes was made.
First, what, you know, the permit, it was against the permit, that's why had the stop
work order by, by the, by the investigator as a stop work order. . . . they went against
the permits. The walls, no more permit. No more permit for the walls that is between
the two properties, you know, what I mean? So, you know, so since this is a report
about permits, what about, what about, yeah, where the permit for the walls? You
know, what, what did they, what did they change to make it now they can build, that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 35
the stop work order was lifted, you know? So, what was changed inside there, only
that permit? What? We like know, us the community like know what's going on?
I get asked every time and I say 1 don't know, the Public Works and the, and the
Planning Department when approve urn. So, again, that's the screwed-up part of the
permitting process, two different departments is involved in this thing. It's just screwed
up, screwed up, cause they no communicate with each other. I going tell you guys
right now, the two guys no communicate with each other. So, need to . . . If she going
talk about her permits, please bring up that thing about it, and let's get one follow-up
on urn so we know what the heck is going on.
And cause right now we losing choke trust in this Administration, this government, and
the process of the permits. We losing choke, choke, choke, choke trust. What I telling
people . . . just build, just build something and if they catch you, then you file for one
permit. Well, that's what Greg Brown just did. So, yeah, so ask her that in her
Department report.
And then, C 22-53, you get the Auditor's report. Okay, same thing. Where, I know, eh,
Mike Molina, you told me about da kine, there is  aaudit going on right now. And 1
called the . . . guys, the one that's supposed to be doing the audit of the Planning
Department. But again, I when send um the, I send urn, like I when send all of you
guys, the one about the Michele McLean, you know, building, building thing. And so, I
when send um to the Auditor. What's happening with that? What's going on with the
Auditor's? What, what, get Auditor's report, but what is happening?
If not, let's form a TIG, like how you guys when form the TIG for the tourism
accommodation. Just form um. I going be the head of um for free. I do um. I show
you guys how. I going knock on that doors, I go,  Igo check um out. I go call em up. 1
already doing um. But, like, you know, let's go, let's do this. Let's do this so we can
build the trust. This is, build the trust of the people. And right now, there is not there.
It's not there. So, okay, I think I pau. Shoots.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you, Junya. You know. I, we actually, this item is actually on
conditional permits, not building permits. But any. Members, you have any questions
for Mr. Nakoa? Okay, none, but thank you, Junya. And have a wonderful weekend.
MR. NAKOA: You guys too. Yessir.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our last individual signed up to testify is Faith Chase.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 36
CHAIR LEE: Faith? Good morning, Faith.
MS. FAITH CHASE [testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-60. 22-71. 22-73 & 22-74: and Bill
Nos. 4 (2022), 53 (2022) and 54 (2022)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee. Good morning, Council. I'm sorry 1, I don't have all my
referencing agenda points, but I know they're topics that you are familiar with. First of
all, the Kula Ag Park. I'm definitely in favor of Bobby Pahia being on that. I am
absolutely in opposition to Gaggero, Mario Raul. I'm sorry, 1 missed any of the
Committee conversations about that. And, and forgive me, Mr. Raul, but our, our island
has a, as a deep-rooted issue, unresolved issues in regards to sustainable, agricultural
and natural farming. And there's no way I'm going to support a Monsanto employee
being on the Kula Ag Park.
And that being said, and everybody knowing my position on that, having helped plan
three anti-GMO marches, maybe in the future 22, what is that 22.04A.070, maybe that
definition in the Kula Ag Park of the criteria of who can be on the Kula Ag Park, maybe
we need one of those to, that part needs to be changed to read one or two or more
members need to be familiar or ma'a to organic and natural farming. But, you know,
you know me, I will bring that up at a appropriate time.
I'm super down for the FFA, 22-71, effectively regulate, absolutely. I know I gave
testimony about the atrocious backside activity where, you know, sometimes they, they
send down the wild animals into the homesteaders who don't have fencing.
22-74, a roundtable, absolutely. I'm looking forward to following that. You know, I
would say that maybe an addendum to that would be to include DLNR, DOFAW,
because actually their activities haven't been really solid either, quite frankly. They've
gotten, they, and they're well aware of it. They get calls and complaints.
Bill 53, the feral animal management. I'm interested to see how that moves forward. I
know this is a ongoing issue. We have some things that are influx. We have things
that are slow to roll in regards to the axis deer. Nothing with teeth has been actually
produced since the conversation started more briskly in 2014.
The Bill No. 54, Director of Ag. Okay, so I doubt that you will have time to make this
adjustment in language. And I'm sorry that I missed this nitty gritty in Committee. But
Section 2, 2.14.130, number 2.a., where, where the, I like the criteria. I like the
description for this director. I like the part of going to school every two years and
learning about the different subjects. It's, it seems very well thought out. But 1 know
all the agricultural players on this island, in this County. And that part where it says.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 37
"Management and budget", it needs a little bit of, the sentence needs to be finished,
"Management and budget with successful audit reporting". I don't need somebody five
years with experience in organization, and individuals in agriculture rolling up for this
job and their, their organization, or their entity that they're coming from, and their
credentials do not have successful audit reporting. I'll just leave it right there. I'm going
to be following that.
Super happy to see 22-73, the Lahaina Aquifer. There's nothing more precious than
our aquifers. I've learned a lot about the health and well-being. There is a lot of criteria.
I really am happy to hear all the passionate testimonies. You know, you're talking about
aquifer, you're talking about watershed management, you're talking about kupuna
input, forest health, soil remediation, animal husbandry, carbon and sea crustaceans,
growing water, invasive species control, reforestation, seed collection, starting
planting, marine life indicators, food security, homesteaders' health. We're talking
about homesteaders who go rogue, or LCA, or kuleana, or actual DHHL homesteaders,
. . . health and well-being. They're all on the borders of the, of the watershed and the
aquifer. Kalo cultivation, I can't, ! cringe when  Ihave to hear about regulating how
much water kalo gets. The ... identifiers, obviously, excellent points, emotional points.
Aquifer stability; cultural traditions, new and old; protocol appropriateness; youth
involvement; government participation; konohiki steward identification; rancher-farmer
development; fire mitigation; insect habitat diversity; indigenous species protection.
These are all aquifer related subjects, so right on. Thank you, Tamara Paltin,
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
Bill 4, for Kepaniwai. Yep, yep, that is a beautiful. The testimony that came forward in
support of the Hawaiian hale, or whatever it ends up being, was super emotional. And
I'm super excited to see the kids being a part of that. And that's long overdue. Thank
you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Question from Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. No question for Ms. Chase. Just
clarification that Bill 54 is going to be referred to our APT Committee for further
discussion in our March 15 meeting. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. CHASE: May I make a comment on that actually. Chair, really quickly?
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Ms. Chase.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 38
MS. CHASE: Thank you so much, Chair. Thank you for that. I do want to, that's, that really
actually pleases me. And I'm sorry that i wasn't aware of that. Thank you for informing
me. I have learned a lot about the micro ag grants this last week, fascinating. I went
to MEO and had a sit-down interview because, you know, 300 applicants, only about
57 were awarded. There, they predicted that that micro ag grant is going to be put into
the Department of Ag. And there's a lot of work to be done there. And there's a lot of
concerning points that I would proba. I'll probably bring up when you bring it up in
Committee. That's all. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you, Ms. Chase.
MS. CHASE: Have a good day.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, we do not have any other testifiers noted. So, this is the last call.
If an individual connected to the meeting has not testified but would like to do so, to
please unmute and identify yourself now. This is the last call for testifiers. Chair, no
one has indicated that they wish to testify. And for the record, we have received written
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony into the record
and to closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
MR. KEKAI KEAHI (testifying on Resolution No. 22-73):
So sorry. Hello, my name is, my name is Kekai Keahi. Sorry, I had muting my. my
phone. I wanted to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, please proceed. Please proceed.
MR. KEAHI: Aloha. I come from Lahaina, and I belong to the old families of Lahaina as well.
I'm speaking on item L, so Resolution 22-. 1 support this resolution. And it's a long
time coming, i should say, on the part of the County to really catch up on what our
community has been so diligently trying to chase after for many years now. And I would
add that this, this is like generations over, I should say. We have dedicated a lot of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 39
time and effort into bringing this discussion this far. So, this should be a no-brainer for
the County to support and to pass. But I want to mahalo everybody who's been
following this, this issue in protecting our, our water resources for the West Maui, for
West Maui. And it's about time. So, mahalo, Council. And I, 1 hope you understand
how much our community has dedicated our lives towards this endeavor. So, mahalo
nui.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, one last call for testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's finish up.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah, that's . . . We don't have anybody, nobody else has indicated that
they'd like to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there-
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with minutes.
CHAIR LEE: No, no. Members, are there any objections to receiving written testimony and
into the record, and closing public testimony?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Hannah Bernard, Hawaii Wildlife Fund;
Sanna Ka'uhane;
Karyn Kanekoa; and
Erik Meade.
1.
2.
3.
4.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, this is a good time to take a break. So, let's come back at
11:00. So, this meeting is in recess until 11:00.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:48 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 11:02 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT. EXCEPT VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, EXCUSED.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 40
CHAIR LEE: Will the meeting of March 4, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of December 3, 2021
was presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama, you, please make a motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
CHAIR, MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Pro Temp Kama, to approve the minutes, seconded by Member Kelly
King.
Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of approving the minutes, please raise your
hand and say "aye". Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 41
EXCUSED: VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes one "excused": Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with item I, on the action on the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-52 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE,
(dated February 14, 2022)
Requesting a time extension to submit the Finance Director’s 2^'^ Quarterly Report and
Capita! Improvement Project Report on or before March 31,2022.
NO. 22-53 - LANCE T. TAGUCHI. COUNTY AUDITOR
(dated February 22. 2022)
Relating to the Operating Budget for the County of Maui for the Fiscal Year July 1
2021 to June 30, 2022, Section 7 of the General Budget Provisions.
NO. 22-54 - SANANDA K. BAZ. ACTING MAYOR
(dated February 14, 2022)
Informing of the appointments of Roger Alexander Jeffrey Clapp and Cody C. Clark
(Reappointment) to the Maui County Arborist Committee.
NO. 22-55 - SANANDA K. BAZ. ACTING MAYOR
(dated February 14. 2022)
Informing of the appointments of George Manulani Kaimiola (Reappointment) and
Rochelle Kimiko Elima Tempo to the Commission on Healing Solutions for
Homelessness.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 42
NO. 22-56 - SANANDA K. BAZ, ACTING MAYOR
(dated February 14, 2022)
Informing of the appointments of Alayna Davies-Smith, Leslie Ann Marie Viloria Garo
and Kimberly Aiko Vares-Yonamine to the Committee on the Status of Women.
(Councilmember Kama was excused from the meeting at 11:05 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Pro Temp Kama, motion to file the items.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SO, I, I'LL MOVE TO FILE THE ITEMS IN, FOR COUNTY
COMMUNICATIONS.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Molina, to file the
items, cause, because these are primarily notifications.
Any discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion to file.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, I have a discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Johnson. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No discussion on the Consent Calendar, right?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Never mind then.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 43
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, we're not supposed to.
CHAIR LEE: But, but you could, you could request that we take it out of the Consent Calendar
if that's a concern.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Will that slow us down? Chair, I just have like one or two
sentences to add.
(Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez returned to the meeting at 11:06 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what comments do you have? On which item?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. So, I guess I have to. it's 22-55.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed. What were your comments?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. I just have this quick, quick comment on
this reappointment of George Manulani Kaimoimoila [sic]. He, he was the one who
mentioned that service providers can throw a lifeline to homeless, but if the homeless
don't grab it, then it's their fault. I just want to have that on record. I, I really would
hope that his opinion would change moving forward. Healing Solutions for the
Homelessness, that's not very healing. So, that's all I wanted to add to that, Chair.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. So, these items will be filed. Any more questions? If not, all those in
favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KAMA.
CHAIR LEE: So, that's eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused", no excused. Let me see.
Let me recount. No one's, oh, we have still. Member Pro Temp Kama's missing. Okay,
so eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused"; Pro Temp Kama. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk, communications.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 44
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-57 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated February 24, 2022)
Relating to a report by Counciimembers on discussion that took place at the Maui
Metropolitan Planning Organization Policy Board Meeting on February 9, 2022.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-57.
I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Mr. Sinenci-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you, Mr. Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: -to file.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: To file County Communication 22-57.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I am providing this report in accordance with the State
Sunshine Law, specifically, the requirement of Section 92-2.5(e), Hawaii Revised
Statutes.
Counciimembers Sinenci, Paltin, and I attend, attended the MPO Organization Policy
Meeting on February 9, 2022, from 1:30 to 2:33 p.m. via video conference. Along with
Councilmember Paltin, Sinenci and I are members of the Maui Metropolitan Planning
Organization Policy Board.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 45
The meeting was organized and facilitated by Executive Director Lauren Armstrong.
And the board offered the opportunity for public testimony, and one person testifier,
testified.
(Councilmember Kama returned to the meeting at 11:09 a.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The board discussed the following: updated Sunshine Law
requirements; approval of December 10, minutes; Executive Developer's Report,
Executive Director's Report; and unfinished business was the Transportation
Improvement Program revisions. And North Kihei Road was, safety was also
discussed. New business was safety performance target. Executive Director
compensation discussion.
The meeting was not specifically or exclusively organized for or directed towards
Councilmembers, and no commitment relating to the Council vote was made or sought.
Chair, that concludes my report.
I welcome any comments from Tamara or Shane Sinenci, who were also at the
meeting.
CHAIR LEE; Comments, Members? Member Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I just was wondering, I thought we said that
that was a publicly noticed and agendized public meetings. Do we still need the report
on it if those factors are met? I mean, it seems like we have this discussion every
single time. Did we ever get an answer?
CHAIR LEE: I don't know. I just love discussing these items over and over again.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Cause I have one more after this. We can ask OCS, or
however you want to handle it.
CHAIR LEE: Well, we’ll, we'll, I'll check with OCS after the meeting so that, so that Member
Sugimura can give her, perhaps last report on this item.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 46
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry about that. County Communication 20--
Oh, I'm sorry. The vote please.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. The vote on the--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Filing.
CHAIR LEE: --on the report.
COUNTY CLERK: Filing.
CHAIR LEE: On 22-57, to file. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Oh, did 1 hear, pro, okay, everybody's back.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I’m back.
CHAIR LEE: Nine. Nine. Nine people. Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
NO. 22-58 - YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated February 24, 2022)
Relating to Councilmembers' report on the Kula Community Association meeting of
February 23, 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-58.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 47
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Molina, to file County
Communication 22-58.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. I'm providing this report in accordance to the
State Sunshine law, specifically, the requirements of Section 92-2.5(e), HRS.
Councilmember Molina, Councilmember Sinenci, and  Iattended the Kula Community
Association general membership meeting on February 23, 2022, from 7 p.m. to
8:30 p.m. video, via video conference.
The meeting was organized and facilitated by the Kula Community Association
President Heather Mueller.
The association discussed the following agenda items: a meet and greet by our new
Police Chief John Pelletier, an update from myself on axis deer, update from Mr. Molina
on the downhill bike ordinance, update from Mr. Sinenci on potential East Maui Water
County Authority, update from the Department of Management and MEMA on storm
water and communication issues relating to the "Kona-Low" Storm, and also, update
from Department of Health on safe drinking water.
The meeting was not specifically or exclusively organized for or directed towards
Councilmembers, and no commitment during the Council, to a Council vote was made
or sought. That concludes my record, my, my report.
And I look for comments from Mr. Molina or Mr. Sinenci, who also attended the
meeting, if they'd like.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Just want to express my
appreciation to my colleague Member Sugimura for doing the letter. And it was
certainly a very good meeting. And I know Member Sugimura, she's had to juggle so
many things on her plate and she still found time to do this. So, I just want to express
my appreciation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 48
Madam Chair, if I could ask a question of our, either OCS or Corporation Counsel?
Because, you know, we're asked that now more than two Councilmembers attend a
meeting, we got to do this letter. Every now and then you see our State delegation,
our Maui delegation, our State Legislators, they have these talk story sessions in the
community. Are they bound to do letters like we have to do on the Council?
CHAIR LEE: I think so. But OCS, David, are you available?
They always exclude themselves. Member--
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ; Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: --I mean, David.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Yes. And as you were alluding to, the, the
State Legislators are not subject to the Sunshine Law. So, there are different
requirements for them, as opposed to Councilmembers and other Sunshine Law board
and commission members. Thank you. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank, thank you, Mr. Raatz.
And Madam Chair, you know, in my humble opinion, in light of what’s been happening
at the State level, I think things should be tightened up as it relates to Sunshine Law.
I mean, if we're going to be bound to providing updates on what we did, they should
do too. They should do these kinds of letters as well. And that's just my opinion.
So, I'm hoping that the State Legislature can really take a second look at this, so there's
more transparency at least on the State level and when they come out to the
community and do these talk stories, which I do appreciate. But again, if we're going
to have, the Council's going to be handcuffed with the Sunshine Law regulations, so
should they. Okay, thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And if any of you Members run for State office
remember what Mr. Molina just said, okay?
Anybody else? Oh, Member Sinenci, you raised, did you raise your hand? No?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No, Chair. But just a mahalo to Member Sugimura, for writing
the report. And 1 was happy to oblige the Kula Community Association. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 49
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anyone else, comments, questions? If not, all those in favor of the
motion to file, raise your hand and say "aye". All nine are back.
Member King, I think you're frozen, could you just say verbally, "aye". I mean, your
vote, your vote.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Am I still frozen, cause it looks like I'm . . .
CHAIR LEE: Not now. Not when you, you, not now. Well, you kind of are, yeah. You're in
and out a little, in and out.
So, the vote count was nine "ayes’zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with communications for referral. The following county
communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
NO. 22-59 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated February 17, 2022)
Transmitting the Director of Finance's Quarterly Report for Fiscal Year July 1, 2021 to
June 30, 2022 as of December 31, 2021 and the Capital Improvement Project report
as of December 31,2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-59 be referred to the Budget
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 50
NO. 22-60 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated February 18, 2022)
Reporting on temporary transfers/loans from the General Fund and Department of
Water Supply Revenue Fund to the General Obligation Bonds Series 2023 Fund as of
January 31.2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-60 be referred to the Budget
Finance and Economic Development Committee.
NO. 22-61 - MICHELE MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated February 14, 2022)
Transmitting the Department of Planning's quarterly report on the status of all active
conditional permits as of December 31, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-61 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to the referrals as read by the Clerk?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
OH, IF, IF THERE IS NO OBJECTION, I WOULD MOVE TO FILE
COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-61.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections to file that item. Members?
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND, THE MOTION.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second. Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so you're making a motion to file 22-61, and seconded by Member King.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 51
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. This list, as was read by the Clerk, is from
the end of 2021, and it's a quarterly report. And so, being that we're in March right
now, and I won't be able to take this up for, before Budget, I'll just wait for the, the next
quarterly report, or maybe even the next one. That'll be the most recent one. So, just
[ guess for, for Members' information, not much change, cause this is an old, from,
from the end of the year.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, that makes sense. Anymore comments or questions? If not, all those
in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAI LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with Committee Reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-22NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution 22-66 . entitled "AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
JEANNE M. BERRY. V. KILOHANA WAENA CORPORATION: KILOHANA WAENA
ASSOCIATION, INC.: COUNTY OF MAUI, ET AL., CIVIL 17-1-0175(2)." be
ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Members, I just, just for clarification, and for the record, so County
Communication 22-59 and 22-60 are going to be referred, or were referred, as read by
the Clerk, huh, correct? That's your understanding? Alright.
Now, the next one. Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 52
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-66.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Been moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura to adopt the
resolution in Committee Report 22-22.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Your Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee met on February 22, 2022.
Your Committee received an overview of the claim in open session by Corporation
Counsel. The claim alleges the County owned and failed to maintain drainage
easements above the claimant's property, which constituted an inverse condemnation.
The claim also alleges damages to the property, having occurred on December 11,
2016, and June 11, 2017, because of heavy rain and flooding.
At the request of Deputy Corporation Counsel, your Committee held an executive
session meeting to discuss confidential information related to the claim.
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to authorize the Department of Corporation
Counsel to settle the claim under terms set forth in the executive session meeting.
Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend adoption of the revised proposed resolution.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: 1 see nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 53
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-59
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO THE
CONSERVATION PLANNING COMMITTEE FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Vernon Kananiolaie Kalanikau (Aha Moku) (Reappointment) to the Maui
County Conservation Planning Committee fora term expiring March 31, 2025.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-59 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-59 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 66 through 70 for discussion and action.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-60
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE
KULA AGRICULTURAL PARK COMMITTEE
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Mario Raul Gaggero (Maui County Farm Bureau) and Robert Hale Pahia
(Agriculture Trade Organization) to the Kula Agricultural Park Committee for a term
expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-60 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 54
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-61
REUXTING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF EVAN PURCELL DUST TO THE
COST OF GOVERNMENT COMMISSION FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Evan Purcell Dust to the Cost of Government Commission for a term
expiring March 31, 2023.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-61 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 55 through 59 for discussion.)
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-62
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF
DONNA DEAN STERLING TO THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Nomination of Donna Dean Sterling to the Board of Water Supply for a term expiring
March 31, 2026.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-62 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-63
APPOINTMENT OF A MEMBER TO
THE MAUI REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Nomination of Patrick David Kekoa Ihu to the Maui Redevelopment Agency for a term
expiring March 31, 2027.
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-63 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 55
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-64
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF
GERALDINE CONSTANTINO VS. COUNTY OF MAUI,
DISABILITY COMPENSATION DIVISION CASE NO. 7-17-00763
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-64 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Do you want me proceed?
CHAIR LEE: Member, uh, let's see. These are recommended for referral. Any objections
to the referrals?
Member Kama.
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-61
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, I'd like to request consideration on Resolution 22-61
please?
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk, can you read Resolution 22-61, again.
COUNTY CLERK: The entirety of the resolution, or just the title?
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, did you want-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 56
CHAIR LEE; the Clerk to read--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; --the entire resolution or just the title?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
CHAIR, WHAT 1 WANTED TO DO WAS I WANTED TO MAKE A
MOTION TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL TO RESOLUTION 22-61, PURSUANT TO THE
RULES OF 7.G. OF THE COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Kama, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive the Rules
of the Council regarding this resolution.
Member Kama, any discussion on, on the waiver?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, on the waiver. Members, at this, two-thirds majority vote on my motion will
allow us to act on this resolution today. Given the very heavy schedule of our wonderful
GREAT Committee Chair and Committee members, I believe that we can take this
matter off the Committee's plate, and that the nominee is here and available for any
questions. And I would appreciate the Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. If I may ask Member Kama,
what is the urgency for having this matter discussed or action being taken here today
versus it going to Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That the, the Committee, at least for your Committee, probably
wouldn't have the time to take it up before budget. And I wanted to be able to ensure
that we did take this up before budget, so that he can start working on this, because
there is a vacancy on the Commission now. And that's the only urgency, Mr. Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay, thank you, Thank you, Madam Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 57
CHAIR LEE; Okay, ready--
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, i just wanted to ask Member Molina, as
Chair of the GREAT Committee, if we would have time to take it up? I'm a little
uncomfortable with, with pushing this forward because we don't usually do this unless
there's a great urgency that can be expressed. And I think it, it's not good form to do
it for one of our aides. So, just nothing personal against Evan, cause I do like him. But
I think that, you know, if there's a possibility of following the process that we should do
that. So, wondering if Member Molina has, has any concerns of being able to hear this
matter in Committee?
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. Thank you for the question.
Member King. I'm scheduled for only one more Committee meeting before we enter
budget March 15. And I have a pretty heavy agenda, that well, we may possibly have
to consider a recess from the March 15. So, yeah, and I know for the sake of
consistency with other Councilmembers' employees being on boards and
commissions, those matters were heard in Committee.
While I appreciate the gesture from Member Kama, so which is why I asked the
question. I mean, is the, ! guess, as you stated, the commission, I guess, are they
really that short-handed that they need this body right now?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I know they do.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Is it? 1,1 was just asking, it's your preference. Member Molina, to
keep it in Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: My preference is to go to Committee, to be consistent with
what we've, with past practice. But that's the, that'll be a decision of this body.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: On the, on the, on the subject of consistency, I just would say
if we do this, then we might as well call up 22-62, as well and 22-67. But and whatever
else. Oh 22-60 and, and like that. So, just, I don't, I don't care either way, but if we're
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 58
going to do it for one, we should do it for all, is, is my only thing. Cause if we're short
of time, we're short of time. If we're going to take it up, we're going to take it up. So,
that's, that's my only comment. I don’t have a strong opinion either way. But if we do
it for one, we might as well do it for all cause then we're saving even more time. So,
that's, that's my only comment.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want to comment?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, yeah, I. too, wanted to ask for consideration for 22-67
support for. . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so now it's, it's going to be--
Yes, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1 was also wondering what the
deadlines were, cause you know, with the boards and commissions, they're, they have
deadlines. And it's, it, I looked for on the resolution and it wasn't there, so. I think that
would also be a factor in the urgency.
CHAIR LEE: Would you know, Member Molina, any of these deadlines?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Not, not at this point. I'd like to consult with staff and-
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: -look at the, you know, because they, we just got these
referrals today. So, I would like a little bit more time to. Cause I know we typically
have from the time when we receive the request from the Mayor and the Council, the
clock starts at 60 days, yeah, from the time we receive it from the Mayor.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Yes, you're correct.
CHAIR LEE: Well, Members, it doesn't seem like everybody, there's too many to take up
today, if, if we took up one, we'd have to take up like three more. I'm assuming that
the Members would prefer that this item be, all the items be referred to Committee.
Member Kama, and then Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 59
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, you know, I hear what my colleagues
have said, and I always like to hear what they say. You know, that's why 1 put forth the
motion, right? Just to get a sense of where are they, where, where's the, where are
their temperatures at? And so, I think hearing what Member Molina has said, and
hearing what you have said. Chair, that my aide is not going anywhere. He's with me
as long as I'm seated in this office.
SO, IF MY SECONDER WOULDN'T MIND THEN, I WILL GO
AHEAD AND WITHDRAW THE MOTION AND SEND IT TO
COMMITTEE.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SURE.
CHAIR LEE: So, was it Member Sugimura? Who, who made the second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I did.
CHAIR LEE: Member, okay, you, you're withdrawing the second? Okay, there is no motion
on the floor anymore.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you. Mr. Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Vice, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and then Member Molina.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, in being reminded it's 60 days,
that would be at the end of April or the beginning of May. So, we're going to be in
budget. And if we don't take action in Committee and then send it to Council with a
committee report, then it just, it just automatically goes through without the Council's
confirmation. I just wanted to throw that out there. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Well, we have some options.
So, we could consider an off-week meeting prior to going to budget, or even in during
the budget session, early stages prior, assuming we have consent from the Budget
Chair. So, those are some options we have. So, just wanted to put that out there.
Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 60
CHAIR LEE; Anyone else want to comment?
Member Paltin, and then member, then Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just had a question, and I'm not sure who to direct it to. But I
wasn't sure we were taking action on all the appointee's today. 1 mean, I wasn't aware
of it. But, you know, we have their contact info and like that. And, and I would be
comfortable taking action on the County floor. But if I knew in advance, so that if I had
questions, I could take their contact information and reach out to them before the next
Council meeting, if that's an option or, or something?
CHAIR LEE: You mean you're suggesting that we table this matter and pick it up at the next
Council meeting? Is, is that what your suggestion is?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yeah. And then, and then Members can reach out on their
own if they have any concerns and get them addressed. And, you know, when we
take the action on the Council floor, we can disclose if we asked any questions and
what the answers were, and the reason for our vote one way or the other. Kind of
similar how I reached out to Mr. Whalin in the direct message, and then I disclosed it
when we voted, or something along those lines. That way, you know, if, if there is any
questions or concerns, we can take it up on our own time with the information that's
provided under the meeting details.
CHAIR LEE: I generally defer to the Committee Chair. So, Committee Chair, what is your,
what is your preference?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: You know, that's, that's the will of the body. But, you know,
but my thing, my preference would be just send it to Committee, and then we'll figure
something out. We can, like I said, can poll the Members on their availability for an
off-week meeting. 1 mean, possibly add it to my already large. I've got some heavy
ticket items for March 15, and if we want to add it to that, then expect a longer meeting
or meetings, I should say. That's one option. Of course, long into the night meetings
are nothing strange for this Council. So, or the other option is consider making a
request to the Budget Chair to set aside maybe just a half a day to address all of these
nominees.
And I might want to make the point this is unusually, an unusually large amount of
considerations before going into budget session that I've seen. Possibly due to the
increased number of resignations from the Mayor's boards and commissions, possibly
because we have rejected a number of nominees. Now, that could be some of the
factors. I don't know, but it is what it is. And again, we're, it's unfortunate it comes at
this time. We're just heading into budget right now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 61
And, of course, all of the, if I may speak for all the Committee members, we're trying
to squeeze in as much as we can before we go into budget. And, you know, some
matters are time-sensitive, like these. So, very rare we, we go into Committee just
right out of budget. It's typically, you know, more towards the latter part of May. And
then, of course, we resume normal, the normal process after.
But again, I will, I would prefer, my preference again is to take this, take it all into
Committee and we'll come up with a proposal to address the time sensitivity concerns.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, is that satisfactory to everyone?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair rules.
CHAIR LEE: Just refer. Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: The Chair rules. That's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Chair, Chairs, Chairs aren't the
bosses. Chairs are the facilitators of the meeting, so they don't rule. It's the body that
rules, for the record.
Okay, so for Resolution 22-59, I, I don't understand why this is on the agenda, again.
I thought we already disposed of this item and supported the appointment of Mr.
Kalanikau.
For 22-67, Member Sinenci put in the chat that that is urgent, that time sensitive. So
we would need to consider that.
And it, it's, you know, with the, with the Charter Commission report, mass nominations,
and just everything that's happening, it's just that it's a very unusual year for all of us.
And I, personally, like Member Paltin's idea of tabling them and just like taking the time
to do them on our own time. Because March, really there, there really isn't any time,
off-week time to take it up. And then, April the, we're, we're already moving around
the Council meetings at the end of May and June, so that we can get everything done
within the timeframe that we're allotted by law.
So, my, my preference would be to go with Member Paltin's idea of tabling it, disclosing,
you know, meeting with the nominees and, and then disclosing what was asked, and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 62
what the response was, and how, you know, we vote at the next Council meeting.
Except for 22-59 and 22-67, which sounds like are time sensitive and that we already
took up. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, you know, let's, rather than have wide open discussion, let's have a
motion on the floor. Let's have a motion on the floor. If that goes, it goes. If then, then
we’ll go to another motion until everybody decides.
Okay, so, Member Paltin, what is your motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
OH, I GUESS I'LL MOVE TO TABLE RESO. 22-60, 22-61.22-62
22-63-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, again, 60, 61,63-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 62. that's all I see.
CHAIR LEE: -62.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Did, did, did somebody mention 67 was a
urgent?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so then and-
COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: -so 60, so is the motion 60, 61, 62, 63, and 67?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Not 67.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 63
CHAIR LEE: What? Not?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. Cause that's a time sensitive, according to Member
Sinenci.
I'll yield to the Clerk.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member, I mean, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, I just wanted to say I haven't called that one up yet-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, but we're just—
COUNTY CLERK: -for action.
CHAIR LEE: -you know, getting a feel. We're getting a feel from, of, of what people want,
you know. It's either going to be tabling it or it's going to be what Mr., the Chair of the
Committee wants is, which is referral. And then, if there's a third option, then we move
to the third option. So, discussion on the motion?
Wait, first of all. Member Paltin, can you repeat the 60, 61, 62, and 63; four of them to
table, okay. And the second came from?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I did.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Pro Temp Kama, seconded the motion.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I did.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then we have discussion. So-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So-
CHAIR LEE: -you've already, you've already discussed this matter, Ms., Member Paltin, or
you want to say something else?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: So, I can call on everybody else.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just am just offering it as an option because of, you know, the
heavy workload in March. That's all.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 64
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Pro Temp Kama. You, you, you as a second. Do you have
discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. So, so hearing Vi/hat our Chair said, and our Vice-Chair
and, you know, I don't want to pressure anybody into having to, we gotta do this, but
we gotta do this first and, you know, putting, compromising everybody, all the other
Chairs so that, you know, we don't have the time we're going to need. So, I think the
best option is to do what Member Paltin has said, take it to the next meeting. And then,
in the interim. I'm going to do what she said, talk to the others. And then, at the next
Council meeting, be ready and prepared to make a vote. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Further discussion?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I have no comments. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Anybody else? Anyfurther-
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I guess I was just, I think if it can be worked out in
Committee, that's my preference. Because I'd rather have the discussion as a group,
instead of putting the onus on each one of us to have individual meetings with each
one of these board individuals. Because, and, and  Ithink, 1 think, you know. I guess
I'm good either way. But 1 think the, those discussions will happen at Council if they
don't happen in Committee. And, you know, we have to be prepared for another long
day. And so, that would be, I'm, I'm just going to take my cue from Member Molina,
because I think he knows where he can put this into his schedule or not.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion before we take the vote?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I heard what Member Molina said in the opening of this,
so 1 support what he wants to do, refer it to Committee so we could discuss it, and. and
Member King. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want to see something? Okay, so, the vote is to-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, roll. Madam Chair, roll call vote please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 65
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay. The motion again is to table Resolution 22-60, 22-61,22-62. and
22-63. Okay, that's the motion. Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER KING: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK. Councilmember Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 66
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, PALTIN, SINENCI
AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
COUNCILMEMBERS KING. JOHNSON, MOLINA
SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
COUNTY CLERK: That's four "ayes", five "noes", no excused. Motion
CHAIR LEE: Did Mr. Sinenci vote?
COUNTY CLERK: Motion fails.
CHAIR LEE; I didn't hear his vote. Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah, he was the first, first vote.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
COUNTY CLERK: "Aye".
CHAIR LEE; Alright, motion fails. So, again. Members, then, these were slated for referrals.
So, the, do you want to vote on that too, or are there any objections to the referrals?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-59
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on 22-59.
CHAIR LEE: 59.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's for the Conservation Planning Committee.
And on eight, August 18, 2021, the GREAT Committee did take this item up. GREAT
item 2-26. The person, the nominee here. I'm sorry.
I MOVE TO WAIVE COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 67
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sinenci
to \Na\ye the Rule of the Council, regarding 22-59.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We, we took up this nominee,
Mr. Vernon Kalanikau, on August 18, 2021, in Committee, and there was unanimous
support. And so, again, because of the extensive agenda items that we have with
deadlines associated, and other deadlines that are quickly coming up, it would be
prudent of us to dispose of items that have already been discussed in Committee.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: 1 wonder why we didn't take action? Okay, any more discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well. I, I had the same thought. I wondered why this wouldn't be
under a Committee Report. It came, already got approval in Committee. Maybe, can
OCS explain that, why it didn't, why it's coming back as a referral?
CHAIR LEE: OCS? Or Member Paltin, you had your hand up? Do you know the answer?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Isn't this one of those where like they had the shorterterm, and
then so they're eligible to be reappointed for the full term?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: In order to stagger.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Stagger.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It doesn't say reappointment. So, then maybe we can get-
CHAIRLEE: Oh okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -OCS to.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 68
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Madam Chair, point of privilege. Maybe we should take a
recess to consult with staff, yeah. Then we can get the, get everything straight and
clear, rather than trying to figure it out on the floor right now.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, brief-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: My suggestion. Brief recess subject to the call of the Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Looks like Ms. Kaohu has a-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Do you know the answer, otherwise I'm going to call a recess?
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I, I just wanted to add that the transmittal does reference a reappoint, with
a term expiration of March 31, 2025.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay. It just didn't get on the agenda as a reappointment. It
says on the agenda, it says appointment.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah, it didn't make it to the agenda that way. But it's in the Granicus--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: --for our agenda link.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. So that, that clears up, that actually clears up that item. Any
more discussion on the Rule waiver? That's the vote. That's the motion. All those in,
do you want roll call anybody? All those in favor of the Rule waiver, raise your hand,
say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 69
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION 22-59, "APPOINTMENT
OF A MEMBER TO THE CONSERVATION PLANNING
COMMITTEE FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI".
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member King, to adopt
the Resolution in 22-59.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. When this was taken up in
August 18, 2021, under GREAT item 2-26, there was unanimous support for
Mr. Vernon Kalanikau and, for the Conservation Planning Committee. As Member
Paltin stated in the previous discussion, this was one of the shorter terms, so this is for
reappointment of the Conservation Planning Committee, which has yet to meet. So,
my, my support for Mr. Kalanikau continues. I think he would be a wonderful
contribution to the Conservation Planning Committee when it finally does get going
with the staggered terms. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on this item, on the vote?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I just, thank you. Chair, I just wanted to support Mr. Kalanikau.
There was unanimous support for him the first time. He has been a very vocal member
of the Aha Moku for our district and been involved, I think in, in South Maui most of his
life, if not all of his life. So, I'm comfortable with this reappointment.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 70
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Okay. Member King. Okay, that was a extended.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. so you . . . see my hand.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, we got you. We got you.
Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CONSIDERATION ON RESOLUTION 22-67
THE REAPPOINTMENT OF SCOTT CRAWFORD TO THE
HANA ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI",
UNDER RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
APPROVING
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Yea.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I don't think we're there yet. Chair. We never, she hasn't called
up.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, 1 see. That's right. We haven't gotten there yet, Member Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
I WITHDRAW MY MOTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 71
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Madam Clerk, continue where you left off.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, proceeding with resolutions recommended for referral.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-65
APPROVING COST ITEMS FOR BARGAINING UNIT 01
NON-SUPERVISORY, BLUE COLLAR EMPLOYEES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-65 be referred to the Budget, Finance
and Economic Development Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-67
APPROVING THE REAPPOINTMENT OF SCOTT
CRAWFORD TO THE HANA ADVISORY COMMITTEE
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you can stop there. You can stop there.
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I’m happy to yield to the area
Councilmember, if he would like to make a motion.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: The Rule waiver. For the Rule.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
I  MOVE TO WAIVE, WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 72
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
waive the Rule of the Council.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, thank you, Chair. Yeah, as the, the time constraints
was the approaching deadline for Mr. Crawford's term, so this consideration today
would address that resolution. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor to waive the Rule, raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-67.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez, to adopt the Resolution 22-67.
Discussion, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yes, on November 5, we approved the
appointment of Scott Crawford to the Hana Advisory Committee for term that was
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 73
expiring in March 31, 2022, for an outgoing member. So, under the Maui County
Charter. . . less than two years may be appointed. So, I ask for your support again.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to say, you know, my
recollection was that we had a position that the Council could fill and the Mayor
appointed Scott Crawford. And then, we found out, oh, it was our position. But we still
appointed him, so he's much loved on both sides of the issue. And I just wanted to
remind Members of that, you know, and, and not, and also Mr. Kalanikau as well. But,
just we were able to quickly fix that because he's such a good nominee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, just as a reminder, Members, these two nominees were vetted previously,
so that's the reason why we're doing this. Any more discussion? All those in favor of
the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye"
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, continuing with referrals.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-68
GRANTING A TIME EXTENSION FOR THE COMPLETION OF THE
195 RENTAL RESIDENTIAL WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS AND ALL RELATED
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE WAILUKU APARTMENT RENTAL HOUSING PROJECT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-68 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 74
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G.
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Roll call.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry, seconded by Pro Temp Kama.
Okay, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds
vote of the entire membership of the Council will enable us to-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair. Sorry, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Point of order, Chair. Sorry. I thought I heard a Member say
roll call.
CHAIR LEE: On the previous vote? Or this vote?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 1 don't know if this vote.  Ijust wanted clarification.
CHAIR LEE: This vote?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah. Someone called roll call. I heard that. Just, just
curious. Was that Member Paltin?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Somebody wants a roll call on, on waiving the Rule? Okay. Alright. You're
right.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Just wanted that clarification. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Please proceed. Sorry, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: So, I move to waive the requirement of Committee referral
and report in accordance with Rule 7.G. of the Council.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, and it was seconded by Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay, so.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of the entire
membership of the Council will enable us to consider the proposed resolution today.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahaio, Chair. Just the same question Member
Molina asked earlier about the time sensitivity on waiving the Rule, Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. Or, thank you, Councilmember Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez. Yes, the, the time sensitivity, along with Ms. Schatz, she can also
explain more to it, but it was in regards to the funding that they received. That the
funding is dependent on they get all of their ducks in a row, and this is the last thing
that's stopping them. So, that's the, it's the financing and these are big numbers. So,
if she wants to expand, I think she's here on, on camera, if you're willing to hear?
CHAIR LEE: We're going to do that after we vote on the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions or comments on the waiver?
Roll Call. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
NO.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 77
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, AND VICE
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
COUNTY CLERK: That's six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-68.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Johnson, seconded by Pro Temp Kama to adopt Resolution
22-68.
Discussion, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Member's, Resolution 22-68 grants a
time extension related to the 195 residential workforce housing units and all related
infrastructure in the Wailuku Apartment Rental Housing Project.
The Council approved this project with modifications
Section 201H-38, Hawaii Revised Statutes, on November 15, 2018, through the
adoption of Resolution 18-197.
in accordance with
Condition 3 of the District Boundary Amendment required that ail 195 rental units and
related infrastructure be completed no later than November 15, 2023. Due to the
delays resulting from repairs and upgrades to the County's wastewater system near
Lower Main Street, Wailuku, the Council extended the completion deadline to no later
than three years after the commencement of the construction through the adoption of
Resolution 19-212.
And then, beginning on April 20, 2020, COVID-19 severely impacted the projects
development ability to move forward with the project, move the project forward.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 78
Therefore, in recognition of the delays related to the repairs and upgrades to the
County's wastewater system and impacts due to COVID-19, the project developer is
requesting a time extension for the completion deadline to no later than the fifth
anniversary date from the adoption of Resolution 22-68. I am asking for the Member's
full support of this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion? More discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; 1 do have some questions for the developer.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Ms. Schatz. Linda Schatz are you on the call. Okay. We have questions
for you.
MS. SCHATZ: Yes, I'm on the call.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Schatz. I just was
wondering, has, has, what has been started so far?
MS. SCHATZ: Yes, we've actually been working very diligently to secure our financing, and
also the drawings, all permits have been submitted since late 2021. And we are
working through with County staff right now to address their comments. We've gotten
first rounds of comments on a majority of our project, including the civil and building
permits. And we are submitting revisions to those rounds at this point. And we actually
hope to pull our mass grading permit to start mass grading by May of this year, and
then hopefully our building permits by August. So, we're pushing very, very diligently
to move that forward so that we can start construction.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; So, you haven't broken ground yet?
MS. SCHATZ; We don't have our permits in place to break ground yet. But we anticipate in
May we'll receive our mass grading, and by August we'll receive all our building
permits.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. Thank you. I'm, I'm ready for, to give my discussion, is
it still available to do that. Chair Lee?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 79
COUNCiLMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. So, the testifier mentioned that in 2019, this passed
unanimously. That's not true because I did not vote in support of it. So, it couldn't
have passed unanimously in 2019.
And the reason that I didn't vote for it was because of all the infrastructure issues, the
traffic, and whatnot. Now, the County has plans to build its own wastewater treatment
facility nearby to accommodate Waikapu and other growth, taking wastewater out from
the Kahului wastewater treatment facility. And part of my objection is that, you know,
when we fast-track housing, it's because there is this great need, and we expect the
development of it to also be fast-tracked. And that hasn't occurred.
And meanwhile, on a concurrent course, we have the Waikapu Country Town that went
through all of the community, went through the full process of Planning and Sustainable
Land Use and whatnot. And that's a good masterplan project.
That's part of my issue with the 201H process, when it's fast-tracked, but it's not fast
built. Then we have this compounding of development going on that's not taking into
account the impacts to the community in the, in the surrounding area. At the time when
this was approved, there were three other, or three total, I think, projects approved.
And none of them have yet to be built. Meanwhile, Waikapu Country Town, which I'm
hearing in my next meeting and has the infrastructure support, is moving forward.
So, you know, my, my request would be that this project gets built near the Sugar
Museum where the County does have land and the infrastructure over there.
The other, the other issue is that, you know, so much has changed since 2018. And,
and if the housing were built now, that would have fulfilled the need. But it's not built
now.
And just from the experience of a 201H project in Lahaina, the one Kahoma Villages
next to Safeway, those houses, the market-value houses are being sold at, there's one
just listed at $1.7 mil. So, when people in my community are not able to afford it, and
they hear that it's a 201H project, it's just really, it makes everyone cynical about what
we say about affordable housing, what we say about 201H.
And, you know, being that we don't know what the market rate for those other rentals
are going to be, I think that we need to take a pause and re-evaluate the infrastructure,
including traffic, wastewater, where that's going to go. The fast-tracking was meant to
fast-track the building as well as the permitting process. But at this point, you know, I
feel like we're just creating kind of a big traffic nightmare, a big infrastructure nightmare.
So, I will not be supporting this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 80
CHAIR LEE; Okay, fine. Anybody, next?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair,
extension. My preference would have been to send this to Committee where we can
get all the answers. Because in the resolution it seems to point the finger to the County,
as far as the difficulty with the repairs of the wastewater system. And I think in the
resolution, it also mentions the developer had some difficulties as well. But if I recall,
during the height of the pandemic, construction was the one thing that thrived, you
know, so that's why I have these questions.
I supported the first
And I would prefer to have a Committee hearing on it where we can get this matter
thoroughly vetted out, as far as why this second request is being made. So, I cannot
support taking action on, on this matter at a Council meeting, because I think this
should go to Committee where we can get the answers from our Department. And so,
to me, I, I, I can, I can see where Member Paltin is coming with this as well. So, I will
not be supporting this matter at a Council meeting without this going to Committee,
because this is a second extension. Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other comments?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. I wonder if we could hear from Ms. Schatz as
to what, if we don't pass this, you know, would be, I guess probably maybe another
month. It could be after budget when we get to it. But what, what is the consequence
in not passing this today?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Ms. Schatz.
MS. SCHATZ: May I answer?
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Schatz.
MS. SCHATZ; So, I want to clarify, it is not a second extension on 201H. We already received
our first one and we are able to meet that timeline. This is for the District Boundary
Amendment, which is a separate approval that also require to be in alignment with
201H. And it is our first ask of an extension of District Boundary Amendment. We did
not, in hindsight, we messed up and we didn't asked for the DBA extension at the same
time as a 201H. We missed that. And so, that's why we are coming today to make
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 81
sure that at least the DBA is extended for the first time to match up with the first 201H
extension.
If this is not decided upon today, it could create a situation. At this point, we are working
very, very fast to start construction. And we have not stopped working on this project,
even with all of the COVID delays, and also sewer delays that we had that we helped
try to fast-track. So, if we don't get our approvals today, what, what our investor, who
is investing $120 million to get this, these housing units to Maui County, they are
requesting that we get it done before we start construction, and therefore before May.
So, we are, again, working as quickly as we humanly can. No developer ever wants
to slow down. They do better when they work very fast. Any delays, really, are due
to, you know, projects take a long time to design and permit, and County also needs
to review. So, there's lots of coordination that needs to happen at the end of the day.
So, we in no way want to slow down at all. And we want to get these units out to Maui
County as soon as possible.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, but you didn't really answer my question. So, what is the
consequence? I know they, developers like to have it done before they start
construction, but if it's not, will the project still go ahead?
MS. SCHATZ: Well, it could jeopardize our financing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
MS. SCHATZ: And I would like to oh.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I just, I guess I will, will just give my deliberation, because,
you know. I've seen a similar thing happen in my first term when it was different
circumstances because the, the developer was, had gone bankrupt. And so, there
was a developer that was trying to take over the project and they were asking for an
extension. Two people voted against it because, you know, why aren't they working
faster? Why haven't they already started construction? But the, but the developer, the
situation was that the new developer didn't have any responsibility to that. And so, by
giving them that extension, we now have 118 affordable rental units in North Kihei,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 82
which, you know, if we had just walked out on that, it would have taken them two more
years to go through that whole process.
So, I understand that things happen. I think it's unfortunate that you didn't ask for the
District Boundary Amendment at the same time. But since we granted the first
extension, this is sort of the first extension on the District Boundary Amendment, I
believe. So. yeah, I'll, i'll support it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions, Members?
Member Sugimura, then Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, I just want to say that this, this project helped the
Department of Environmental Management by putting forth about $300,000, so that,
that the line to the wastewater treatment plant by Y. Hata, that area, all went down
Lower Main. So, they helped fund it so that we could move faster, and helped provide,
you know, that for the greater community, really. So, in terms of the project and their
urgency to get this done, they saw the urgency because of the time schedule. And
they even, you know, put forth some funding. So, that's how serious they take this,
which helped us. And we experienced them, the construction going on Lower Main,
when it was going on. So, I want to thank them for that. And i support, you know, this
DBA.
And 1, I thank Gabe Johnson for bringing this forward, so we could, you know, get this
resolved, because we are going into budget. And all of us know what that means,
cause things shut down as, other things shut down as we take on, you know, one of
our main responsibilities, which is the budget for the new fiscal year. So, thank you.
Members. I support this DBA.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, just a, an quick question for
Ms. Schatz. You know, through this process and, and just following up on some
previous questions, there is established AMI's for this project as a 201H, correct?
MS. SCHATZ: Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Of the lower, addressing the lower AMI's. Okay.
MS. SCHATZ: Our, our requirement is to provide, based on 2.97, oh sorry, 2.96, is to provide
the 80 percent to 120 percent area median income or below. So, 80 or below
100 percent AMI or below, and 120 percent AMI and below. And so, we are meeting
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 83
those requirements. And again we are rentals, not for sale. So, we are doing long
term rentals, not short-term. They are long term for locals that actually need rentals
on Maui. And about 44 percent are renters on Maui.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCl; Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any ques, anybody else, questions for Ms. Schatz.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; 1 do remember, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair. Thank you for being here, Ms. Schatz. For
my question to you is if, if the project is delayed, would, would your funder pull its
funding?
MS. SCHATZ: Potentially? I can't speak for them. But as a developer trying to hold every
piece of the puzzle together, we don't want to do anything that might give them any
worry that this project might not be able to move forward. So, ensuring that we can
get this approval today really solidifies everything, and they will feel comfortable that
there's no discretionary approvals that still hang out there. And so, I can't speak for
them solely on what they'll forecast or a decision they'll make in the future, but it's
important to say that it would put this all on very shaky ground if we don't get this.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: So, your shaky ground puts the project on shaky ground, puts
the housing crisis on shaky ground. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else with questions for Ms. Schatz?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. 1 have a question for Ms. Schatz.
So, the resolution says, "In accordance with Condition 3 of the DBA, a time extension
is hereby granted to require that the 195 rental residential workforce housing units in
the Project with all related infrastructure, be completed not later than the fifth
anniversary of the date of adoption of this reso". So, the extension is ten years? Oh,
sorry, five years?
MS. SCHATZ; Oh, an extension that we're seeking is five years, yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 84
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And so, if we adopt it today, it would be five years
from today?
MS. SCHATZ: Correct.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And the original timeframe was how long?
MS. SCHATZ: The original 201H timeframe, actually, the original District Boundary
Amendment timeframe went out to November of 2023, and it actually matched the
original 201H timeframe that we also have. But now that we extended 201H, this
District Boundary Amendment no longer matches closely. And, and, you know, we're,
we regret not having gotten those two approvals together before you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. And so, the 201H time extension was, when
when is the date for that?
MS. SCHATZ: So, the extension goes out to May 3, 2025.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Urn. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, mahalo, Ms. Schatz. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions for Ms. Schatz?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I just speak on a little bit of this. On
page 40 of the Comprehensive Affordable Housing Plan, it lists this project as a priority.
On January 3, if you recall, Ms. Schatz came to the Affordable Housing Committee and
spoke on this project, and we learned a little bit more in depth of the struggles they
had. If you recall, they had, they applied for HHFDC loans. They didn't get them. They
got, they only got tax credits. They didn't get the Rental Housing Revolving Fund.
They didn't get their private active bonds. So, luckily, they found another, another
group, the AFL-CIO guys, who are willing to put in 100 million, or $110 million into this
project. So, it sounds to me like this District Boundary Amendment is, is not that big of
an ask in my two cents. So, that's, that's my two cents.
I, I want to appreciate what Councilmember Paltin said, though, in regards to the lots
behind Lowe's and over there. Those are prime grounds too, and I appreciate her
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 85
bringing that up because developers should be looking at that. So, that's all my, all my
two cents on that. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else have questions for Ms. Schatz?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, I. I don't have a question.
I JUST MOVE TO AMEND THE DATE TO MAY 3, 2025. SO
THAT THEY'RE IN ALIGNMENT, SO WE'RE NOT COMING
BACK STAGGER. STAGGER.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Schatz. Ms. Schatz, you have a comment on that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. she made a motion. I seconded.
CHAIR LEE: I have, I have a right to ask Ms. Schatz to comment on it.
MS. SCHATZ: Well, we would prefer it to have a full five, because given inflation right now
and what's happening with COVID, we know things are getting better, but there might
be a variant. And then, with the Ukraine war, things kind of turn upside down. So, we
can't forecast what will happen. So, the five years would be more ideal even if it's
staggered. And again, the DBA only allows us a one-time extension, and that's it. And
we can't ask for any more extension after that. So, you know, once that time runs out,
we're done. We will, we have demonstrated we will continue to work forward to deliver
these early to you and that's our intention. We don't want to stop or wait or stall at all.
It helps, it doesn't help us to stall this project. It in fact hurts us. So, I would like you
to consider full consideration of five, because we only get one ask and that's it.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. So, the motion on the floor is to amend the time limit. And can you
repeat it again. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: To May 3. 2025. And if I get a second. I'll explain.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 86
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
to move the extension to May 3, 2025.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. And I guess my main point is that this project
doesn't operate in a vacuum. There's projects going on all around this area, and they
all have impact on the livability of the existing businesses, the existing residences. And
I'm, you know, I'm very aware of the housing crisis, and I'm very aware of Waikapu
Country Town moving forward as well. And you know, the, the efforts and, and the
time and community involvement in, in building a community that has, you know, traffic
flow, that has schools in appropriate areas and whatnot, and then, another one coming
up and possibly holding out till it's 2027, and what the situation is going to look like at
that time.
We're talking about fast-track housing. We fast-tracked on our end. And if it's not
going to be up and running by 2025, it's not fast-track housing, and we have to
reassess the impacts of what is built at that time. So, I'm just saying if, if they can't get
it done by 2025, then we need to re-evaluate the location. We know that area that
Member Johnson told about was, is open for a building, for affordable housing. The
County owns it. There's no land price. And, and I think, in our discussion in the Charter
Commission about the Department of Housing and the Department of Human
Concerns and seeing where is the appropriate place for us to build housing at this
point, that is the appropriate place. And so, so I, I just think that, you know, if it can't
be done by 2025, then we need to re-evaluate because it's not fast-track housing. It's
slow-track housing. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I support the motion on the floor. I
think it's a fair compromise from not supporting it to aligning the deadlines with the 201,
201H extension. And I heard Ms. Schatz's response to aligning the two deadlines.
And the intention is to fast-track it. And I would hope that the 2025, the May 2025
deadline would be sufficient time. We were hoping that it would, we weren't going to
need this extension, but here we are.
And things will, as Member Paltin stated, are constantly changing and evolving. And
it's the studies, traffic, water, quality of life, ail those different kind of studies that were
done back when they were done, are getting older and older and more and more
irrelevant, because it's not taking into consideration current trends. And so, I think that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 87
that is a very important consideration when we're looking out to 2025 already. So, if
we're going to not adopt this motion to amend it to align, then we're looking at another,
what, additional two more years? So, I mean, if we're saying that our hair is on fire
and we need it done now, then you're going to support this motion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not, I, I'd like to say something that--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. I, my, my thought is if we, if we force this developer
to get it all done by 2025, and it doesn’t get done, then everything's wasted, time,
money, energy. And then, we don't get the 195 affordable housing units. At this point,
it's, I feel like, well, I never said my hairs on fire. I mean, our Chair of Housing
Committee always says that. But I'm, I'm, !'m willing to say, okay, his hair is on fire,
and I want to help him put it out. And this is one of the ways I think we can help him
put it out.
So, we're looking for an extension. We wanted to put a limit to 25, and really when
she's asking for five years from today, she's actually asking for 27. So, we're only
asking for two more years on top of what the amendment says. I'm more open to giving
people more time, because if we say to this project, no, go here, then she got to start
from the very beginning and it jeopardizes all the work that they've been doing for the
past, I don't know, five, ten years.
And I know . . . project didn't happen overnight. His project was like 30 years in the
making. So, I don't want to compare projects A to project C, or D, or E. I just want to
see the project that is in the front of me, and the decision that I have to make, even
though I can understand and see other things that are going on around. But right now,
in the front of me is what I'm looking at. And therefore, my beloved Councilmember
from Lahaina, I could not support the motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'm sorry. I think you wanted to speak. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I did. But I'll wait till the last, because--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 88
CHAIR LEE: -we need to move this forward.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, I wanted to support this. I think it's important
that I think the developer and this project has done due diligence many times over, and
just trying to provide housing for our, and which is our greatest need. So, I, I support
this. I, I want it to happen. And I appreciate all the work that they have done to keep
this going, even amongst, even with COVID happening, and the supply chain
problems, which makes me nervous about cutting it exactly to 2025 and giving this
some more time just in case. So, I support the DBA as Gabe Johnson recommended.
And I support the motion for, for this to pass.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh no, this is not to limit the extension. 1 want it to go to
2027.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Okay, I would like to just add something here. Of all of you on
the Council. I am the one that lives in the district. And I live a stone's throw away from
this project. I will be impacted, along with my family, and the neighbors, and everybody
else. But I'll tell you one thing. I'm so dedicated to housing that 1 don't mind sacrificing
a little inconvenience so others can have a place to live. And this is one of the few
projects that have come before us that will provide substantial rental units, which is so
badly needed. So, with that. Members, I will ask you for your, your, and roll call.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Please state the motion?
CHAIR LEE: It's to extend the deadline to May 3, 2025.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair. Point of, point of information, isn't the motion before us
to amend it to limit the deadline, shorten the deadline?
CHAIR LEE: To May 3, 2025. That's the amendment before us.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The amendment that is before us. But the original motion was
for it to go to 2027?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Five years.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, the motion is to .. . Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 89
CHAIR LEE; So, this is the amendment now, we're voting on. So, to shorten the time period
to 2025. May we have a roil call?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES G.M. KRUEGER; Chair, County Clerk Kaohu is
encountering technical difficulties, so I'll step in for the roll call vote. Proceeding with
a roll call vote.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; NO.
Councilmember Mike Molina.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KING;
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; NO.
Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha
Kama.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
NO.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK;
AYE.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 90
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, AND
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING
SINENCl, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES;
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there three "ayes", six "noes"; motion fails.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, back to the main motion. Members. May we have a roll call vote.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I never discussed or had a
discussion on the main motion. So, this will be my discussion. We talk about housing,
you know, the urgency of housing. And we approve projects, and then developers
come before us and ask for extensions, and extensions, and extensions. There's so
many projects on the books that haven't been built. And this was an opportunity to
hold developers accountable to what they presented to the Council and to the
community. And on behalf of the community, that, that's who we speak for, the
community who is saying that this is urgent. And so, we're going to keep extending
and extending and then talk about how, you know, this is urgent. And it just feels
disingenuous to continue to provide extensions longer, and longer, and longer, while
the community is desperately asking us to make this a priority.
So, I, 1 would have supported the main motion if we had amended it to 2025. That I,
that that's already an extension. And then, I, 1 can't support it to 2027 and also face
the community, who's going to hold me accountable because I didn't hold the developer
accountable to what they initially promised the community. And so, 1 won't be
supporting the main motion on the floor. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, Madam Chair, I stated some of my reasons earlier for
not supporting to take action on this today. And if the amendment had flown to, had
been approved to 2025, the developer could still come back to the Council for an
extension if they really needed it. But as the Vice-Chair kind of explained, it's more
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 91
somewhat symbolic, you know. We want to, when the developers come before us with
a 201H, you know, everybody gets excited. Yeah, we, you know, if we provide all this
as a exemptions to the 201H process, we can get this done. But then, you know,
sometimes circumstances do happen.
But again, yes, the finger may point to the County, but it's also the responsibility of the
developer. And the developer did acknowledge there was an oversight, so one of
those unfortunate things. But I would have liked to have had a Committee meeting on
this where we can hear from all parties on this. So, while, you know, I certainly hope
that this project gets online in the near future, this is a matter of principle in my opinion.
So, that's why 1 cannot support taking action on this today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anybody else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, and mahalo for this time for this discussion as well.
And as a reminder, we did have more discussion for the bifur, bifurcation of the
Department of Housing and Human Concerns. And so,  Ithink, you know, with that
bifurcation we could address a lot of the issues that we're, we're discussing today. But
for this topic, you know, I'm also reminded of $100 for a three quarter-inch plywood
and what this Ukrainian war that we ail, you know, supported to, to end. So, I can
understand that there are, you know, there are these price gaps and stuff.
And, and as a Council, we've, you know, denied 201H process projects in fire prone
areas. We've denied 201H projects in water drought areas. And so, originally, we
thought this was a place that was near the infrastructure. That this was a good project
so that, you know, it was within a nearby infrastructure. So, that's why I supported it
the first time. And, but I, I wish that every developer was Mr. Bigley. But Mr. Bigley
can't even, you know, he can't build fast enough for us, for our County. So, you know.
I'm willing to, to give these guys a chance. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Okay, so I'm just sitting in my chair here, feeling
kind of like, yuck. Because, we have, we got to admit, we've got some good developers
and we've got some ugly developers. I always try to choose my words, so I don't say
what I really am thinking. But we can't always hold somebody hostage because what
somebody else did. What happened before we all got here is one thing, but we're all
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 92
here now. And I don't want to have to, in my head, think about what never happened
because what might happen.
But what I hear in the front of me is what this lady is telling us will happen, and the
sincerity in her wanting to make it happen. She wants 2027. She may not, eh, she
may get it done in 2025 for all you know. We don't know that. But I don't think we
should be laying burdens on one developer because of something another developer
didn't do. So, 1 am supporting of sending this forward and I agree with the Chair of the
Housing Committee. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I went through exactly what Member
Kama was talking about in my first term, looking at the Kaiwahine Village Project and
Councilmembers who wanted to hold the potential new developer accountable for what
the previous developer had done. So, I understand what you're talking about, Member
Kama.
I think the bottom line on this is I did hear there won't be another extension. They aren't
allowed to ask for another extension. So, that's probably the key part here, is this is a
one time--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . question . . .
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Paltin, can you mute yourself? Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sorry, I thought I was muted.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: That's okay. So, you know, they can't, they can't come back to
the table. And this is why, you know, we, we give ourselves extensions when we did
the, the community plans, because we couldn't get them done in time. And, you know,
things happen that are external. Things happen that are internal. They take, they end
up taking longer than they should.
But there, if, I mean. I'm, I'm actually hopeful that they will break ground in May. And
1  understand from a funders point of view why they would want to have these
extensions done before they fund, get into breaking ground, because then they're
locked into that funding. So, I'm willing to support it. And I am very hopeful that they
won't need the full extension. But I understand why they're asking for that time,
because they don't get another bite at the extension if they don't, if they don't get it
done by 2025.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 93
So, I will support it. And, and 1 appreciate the, your words too, Chair, that, you know,
from the area, the area representative, because sometimes we forget to ask you.
Because, you know, I forget, as our Chair, I forget to ask you what do you think about
it as the area representative. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member King. Anybody else? Roll call.
Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  Iask our Corporation Counsel
if that is accurate, legally? If people, if Councilmembers are basing their vote on that,
if a, another extension is not allowed under the law? Because I didn't hear anyone cite
the law. Chair, can our Corporation Counsel Lutey, answer my question?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Corp. Counsel.
CORPORATION COUNSEL MOANA LUTEY: Thank you. Yes, the extensions for DBA's are
only allowed once, and that's in the exhibits that are attached.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Ms. Lutey. Do if you have the law
on that, the citation?
CORPORATION COUNSEL: It's in your-
CHAIR LEE: Ms. Lutey, you're, you're muted.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Oh, sorry. It's in the ordinance. I can pull that up. Oh, it's also
attached to the resolution. I can, let me pull that up real quick.
CHAIR LEE: It should be in Granicus.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any other comments or questions in the meantime? Weil, Corporation
Counsel has already stated it's in, it's in, attached to the resolution. Everybody ready
for the question? Roll call.
Councllmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 94
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
NO,COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AYE.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
NO.VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.CHAIR LEE:
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
SINENCI, SUGIMURA, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
COUNCILMEMBERS MOLINA, PALTIN, AND
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ.
NOES:
COUNTY CLERK: That's six "ayes", three "noes"; motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Members. We, it's time for our lunch break, our lunch break. So,
we have a request to bring something forward, Bill 23. Any objections to bringing Bill
23 forward--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: --before we take our lunch?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; I really appreciate that. But given how this meeting is going, I
don't think I'm going to make that. 1 was going to try to make the lottery event, but I
don't think I'm going to. So, I can withdraw that request and just go through that.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is my way of letting my staff know to please contact the, the
folks who are holding the lottery today, and let them know that we're still in Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's, it's about little after, 12:40, Members. How long of a lunch break do,
would you like? One hour? Okay, one hour break. 12:40 to 1:40, Members? Okay.
No objections? So, ordered. The recess for lunch will be one hour, till 1:40.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:38 P.M. ,AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:43 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of March 4, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-70
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES A PROPOSED
BILL AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE
ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO
TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-70 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 96
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-71
URGING THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION TO MORE EFFECTIVELY
REGULATE HELICOPTER OPERATIONS IN
MAUI COUNTY
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-71 be referred to the infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-74
URGING THE STATE CONGRESSIONAL
DELEGATION TO URGE THE FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION TO ESTABLISH A
COMMUNITY ROUNDTABLE ON AIRCRAFT
NOISE WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION AND THE MAYOR
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-74 be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-73
SUPPORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
THE LAHAINA AQUIFER SECTOR AS
SURFACE WATER AND GROUND WATER
MANAGEMENTAREA
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-73 be referred to the Agriculture and
Public Trust Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Consideration for 22-73, please. Okay.
Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE; Did you want to make a motion on that?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Urn, at the, I just wanted to comment that the APT Committee
hosted Mr. Kaleo Manuel, members of the Commission on the Water Resource
Management on February 22, for a detailed presentation on the designation of the
Lahaina Aquifer Sector. So, I just wanted to refer to the area representative to present
her resolution today, Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, send it to the, you want it referred to the a--
Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; 1 believe she wants to-
CHAIRLEE: PSLU?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: She wants to speak to it on, on our Committee behalf, if can?
CHAIR LEE; I see.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-73.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI;
SECOND.
Been moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to adoptCHAIR LEE:
Resolution 22-73.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. May I please request the Clerk read the
resolution in its entirety?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 98
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Councilmember.
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Clerk. Members, as stated in
the resolution, the Lahaina district has seen a significant decrease in annual rainfall.
And current projections with the effects of climate change anticipate even further
decline of a steady rain that benefits the landscape. You know, we may have those
rain bomb events, but it doesn't contribute to the recharge of our aquifers.
Pumpage rates in certain areas have exceeded their sustainable yield, and existing
withdrawal of ground water has led to an increase in saltwater intrusion. This concern,
particularly, has been brought to me year after year after year, long before 1 was even
on the Council. You know, it's been studied in our element, intermediate and high
schools, like why is there so much chloride in the water and why do the elected leaders
allow it to go on?
The purpose of this resolution is to urge the Mayor and Department of Water Supply
to work with the State Commission on Water Resource Management to manage and
protect water resources in the proposed Water Management Area. The Commission
has recommended this action, because they found that the Lahaina Aquifer Sector
meets the criteria for designation as both Surface Water and Ground Water
Management Area, as outlined in Section 174C-45, Hawaii Revised Statutes.
Designation would ensure reasonable beneficial use of the aquifer sector in the public
interest for current and future generations. And, you know, the presentation, the
charts, the graphs, it all laid it out for us, that this is a necessary step to ensure that
current residents and future residents will have clean drinking water.
And I just want to thank my community, the law school ,and Deputy Director Kaleo
Manuel, as well as Aryon Strauch. You know, really, since they've been working for
CWRM, we've seen a tremendous difference in the status quo where the State Is really
taking their responsibilities seriously. The IF, NFS's have been set. We do need some
help in enforcement of that. But I mean, really, since they've come on, we've seen so
much attention, more to our water resources. And if this is their recommendation and
there was, this was the community outcry, I just respectfully asked for the Members
support of my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 99
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, what is the time sensitivity with this?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, thank you, Chair, for the question. The public hearing is
scheduled this month on the designation. And because of the upcoming budget and
all the things going on, I don't think that we'll have time. I think they're trying to reserve
a location March 15, so we won't have time to hear this in Committee, and then bring
it back. And that's kind of why I requested Member Sinenci, if he could have the
presentation at his previous Committee meeting in anticipation of us being able to draft
this resolution of support, because the public hearing is coming up. And also, you
know, to, to listen to the recommendation of our citizen Board of Water Supply, upon
them hearing the same presentation, and the same testimony, and the same
information to let them know that we heard them as well.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. And then the board, the Board and the Administration is in favor of
designation?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The Board voted in support. The Director of Water Supply did
not. And that caused a little confusion in my community. And 1 don't think the Mayor
has taken a stance yet. And so, that's why urging.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any further discussion. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I speak in strong support of the
motion on the floor to adopt this resolution for all the reasons Member Paltin stated in
her remarks. And, and I am okay with adopting it today, because we did take it up in
APT Committee. I was able to ask questions of the presenters, Mr. Manuel, Mr. Ayron
... I'm going to say his last name wrong, so I'm just going to call him Ayron.
And in in, in the Committee, we did talk about, you know, the potential of having a
resolution. And so, I spoke in support of a resolution to do just this, which is to support
the designation of a Surface Water or Ground Water Management Area in the, for the
Lahaina Aquifer. Molokai's island, the whole, the entire island is a Ground Water
Management Area. And it has been so for a while. And that's because of, it, we have
a sole source aquifer. And the amount of water that we have is, is not as abundant as,
as Maui.
But for, in the presentations, I, 1 just, it was pretty astounding to see how much water
is already being extracted, and how much will be extracted based on what, what has,
development that has already been permitted, and then future, you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 100
development. And we need to get ahead of this now. Really, this should have been
done at least a decade ago, if not more. But we don't have control over the past. We
only have control over the present, which is why I'm supporting this resolution today,
because we have, is, this is absolutely urgent.
Without water, there's no life. Without water, you, you can't have affordable housing.
Without water, as the testifiers spoke to this morning, there, there is no gathering of
limu, fish. All of our cultural practices, it, it significantly, and in some cases, irreparably
harms and destroys them. So, we need to take action on this today.
And in supporting this resolution, the first "BE IT RESOLVED" clause does say that it,
we as a Council of the County of Maui, supports the designation. And so, when the
hearing comes up for CWRM on March 15, or whenever it does come up, because
we're, we would be passing this resolution, if we do pass it today, 1 would hope that
our Council Chair would submit this as testimony in support of the designation.
And then, 1 have a non-substantive amendment for the title. In the first and the last
where, "WHEREAS" clauses, it reads to designate the Lahaina Aquifer Sector as a
Surface Water and Ground Water Management Area. I think the "a" was missed in the
title. So, Supporting the Designation of the Lahaina Aquifer Sector as, and then "a"
Surface Water and Ground Water Management Area.
(Councilmember Johnson was excused from the meeting at 1:59 p.m.)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And I think that's non-substantive. And we're getting
the thumbs up from Member Paltin. So, if we can just make that change so that it's
grammatically correct. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Well, as you said, you know, this is not a County function. It's a State
function. So, this is just a resolution. However, my recollection of that meeting didn't
have a lot of people on the other side of the issue. So, you know, I encourage all of
you, when you bring something up, please have both sides available, yeah.
Okay, so any further discussion? Let's, let's start timing these, these discussions.
Madam Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And I’ll make it quick. You know, so
I, I, I understand your point. Chair, of like having the "other side". And so, the other
side is basically the ones that want to extract all the water that it can, you know,
unbridled extraction.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: And so, it, it, it's, it's our, it’s our, you know, kuleana
as the government, to ensure that our resources are protected. It's not the extractors
kuleana to make sure that others have water. It's our kuleana to do that, to, to ensure
that everyone has access, and to, the most important resource, which is water.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, that's fine. And you're not going to draw me into a debate. I said what I
said. What I say-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I wasn't-
CHAIR LEE: What I say, what I say for one-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I wanted to state, if-
CHAIR LEE: What I say for one applies to all. And that was a general statement about all
the issues.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That’s fine. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: All the issues.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That's fine, Chair. But, you know, this is my second
and final and I wanted to make my remarks and I didn't hear the timer go off. So, I was
finishing my remarks and that's, that's my comments. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. But you must have the longest three minutes in the whole world.
Okay, now, anybody else? Anybody else?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Someone in the Chamber is not muted and they were
laughing. Just to let you know, we heard.
CHAIR LEE: Well, I'm not in the Chamber.
Okay, so any further discussion? Otherwise, I'm going to take the vote. Roll call.
Madam Clerk, roll call.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 102
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Roll call.
Shane. Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 103
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.
COUNTY CLERK; We have eight "ayes", one of those with reservations, and one "excused".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, motion carries.
Next.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Members.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, just to be sure, one of the referrals, resolution referrals that I read
when Akaku was down, I've been asked to re-read.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-69
AUTHORIZING THE GRANT AND DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY TO
HALE MAKUA HEALTH SERVICES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-69 be referred to the Human Concerns
and Parks Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. That's going to be referred to the Human Services and Parks
Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Exceptions? If there were any exceptions to the referrals.
CHAIR LEE: Are there any exceptions to the referrals? If not, so ordered.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 104
COUNTY CLERK: Item N, Bills. Chair, proceeding with bills for referrals. The following bills
are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 51 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
(COUNTYWIDE DRAINLINE REPLACEMENT PROGRAM,
COUNTYWIDE ROAD RESURFACING AND PAVEMENT PRESERVATION
(OKOLANI CULVERT REPAIRS))
The recommended action is that Bill No. 51 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 51 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 108 through 111 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 57 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL,
AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 57 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 57 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 111 through 115 for
discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 105
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 58 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL
PROGRAMS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 58 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 58 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 111 through 115 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 52 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 14.21A.015, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 52 (2022) be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
(BILL NO. 52 (2022) WAS LATER REFERRED TO THE
CLIMATE
COMMITTEE. See page 107 for discussion and action.)
RESILIENCE. ENVIRONMENTACTION
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 59 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 16.20B, MAUI COUNTY CODE
AND ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 16.20C, MAUI COUNTY CODE. REUXTING
TO THE PLUMBING CODE
The recommended action is that Bill No. 59 (2022) be referred to the Infrastructure and
Transportation Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 106
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 53 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 3.85, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, CREATING THE FERAL ANIMAL MANAGEMENT FUND
The recommended action is that Bill No. 53 (2022) be referred to the Agriculture and Public
Trust Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 54 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
FOR THE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
The recommended action is that Bill No. 54 (2022) be referred to the Agriculture and Public
Trust Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 55 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.76, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE RULES FOR THE MOLOKAI FARMING
COST REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM FUND
The recommended action is that Bill No. 55 (2022) be referred to the Agriculture and Public
Trust Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 56 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 22.04A, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. RELATING TO KULA AGRICULTURAL PARK
The recommended action is that Bill No. 56 (2022) be referred to the Agriculture and Public
Trust Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member King, did you want an exception for Bill 23? Member King?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 107
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 52 (2022)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, I had some requests on these referrals first. Bill 23 isn't
until we get to second and final reading. But for Bill No. 52, I would request that that
be referred to the CARE Committee.
CHAIR LEE: To the where?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: To the CARE Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's see, this is regarding-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is really, this is the bill that Travis Liggett testified on this
morning. It's really an environmental issue, is how it came up. So, we, we worked on
it assuming it would come to the CARE Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so this would involve, but doesn't this involve the sewer treatment plants?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It does. But it also involves the environmental, the treatment for
the environment. So, I think it's one of those crossover issues that could be either.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yea. I mean, I understand. I read it. And I also understand
that Kelly has worked on it, so that's fine. And I'll be in your Committee. We can talk
about it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. We have a lot of crossovers, yeah, Kelly?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, we do.
CHAIR LEE: I like to see that kind of camaraderie. Okay
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Next. Next.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 108
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, then I have, i, I'd like to, if I can at this time, since we're on
the bills for referral. If I can call, address Bill 57 and 58.
CHAIR LEE: 57 and 58.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Our Clerk stopped at Bill 56.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh okay, we're not there yet. Alright, thanks.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh no, I don't know why. But if, if we're stopping, I
was going to take action on Bill 51.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, so she didn't read all of them yet? Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'll wait till she, I'll wait till she gets to them.
COUNTY CLERK: I, I read 57 and 58.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, you did? I thought you had.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, me too. Okay, let's, okay let's go, stay in order. Let's stay in order.
Bill 51. Vice-Chair, you had?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 51 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair.
1 MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 51 IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 109
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, moved by Vice-Chair Ra\wlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Paltin, to waive the Rules of the Council.
The discussion on this, Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. There are no regular BFED meetings
scheduled until the conclusion of Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, so approval of this motion
will enable us to consider the bill today. And this is amending the FY 22 Budget. And
I did the math on the calendar, so we won't be able to take it up after budget either, in
order to get the two readings after budget that would be required at Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion on the Rule waiver? If not, do we need roll call? If
not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
Member Kama? Yes?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I voted already, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. you did? Okay, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 51 ON FIRST READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 110
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Okay, moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member King, to pass Bill 51 and, on first reading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. discussion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, this bill would amend
Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix C, for the Department of Public Works, including,
by including Okolani Culvert Repairs for the Countywide Drainline Replacement
Program and Countywide Road Resurfacing and Pavement Preservation.
The Department is making this request to allow the project to proceed in FY 22. And
it would address damages that occurred during the most recent storm event in
December 2021.
No additional funds are being requested at this time. The Okolani sinkhole repair is
estimated at $2.5 million and we anticipate using FY 22 funding for the entire project,
including construction, to free up funding in FY 22 Drainline Replacement Program.
The Department is referring the, deferring, sorry, the West Maui portion to FY 23, and
anticipate the Centra! Maui portion to come in under budget. Deferring funding for the
West Maui portion to FY 23 will not delay it because the Department is still on schedule
to bid out the work by the end of the calendar year 2022.
Because of the overlap with the FY 22 CIP year and the FY 23 budget, moving funds
from FY 22 to FY 23 does not affect the schedule for the West Maui Drainline
Replacement. The Department does not need to defer any projects from FY 22
Resurfacing Program, because they anticipate having enough from the FY 22 Drainline
Program. However, in the event the actual cost of Okolani exceed available funding
from the FY 22 Drainline Program, the Department is able to use any available
carryover from FY 22 Resurfacing Program to support the project.
We do have Budget Director Michele Yoshimura on the line if Members have any
questions. I respectfully ask for the Members support of this, of my motion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Members, do you have any questions of Director Yoshimura?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 111
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I don't know if it has to be for Director Yoshimura. I just was
wondering if Okolani was, that was Upcountry where they had the damages from the
Kona Storm?
CHAIR LEE: Director Yoshimura, did you hear the question?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, yes. I thought it was Kihei. But let me check. Okolani is part
of the Wailea-Makena area.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Thank you. I just was wondering. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members, or comments, discussion? Okay, are you ready
for the vote? Do I need roll call? Okay, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one excused; Member Johnson. Motion
carries.
Alright. So, are we on Bill 57 and 58? Bills 57 and 58? Member King?
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NOS. 57 (2022) AND 58 (2022)
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 57 AND 58 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
Both Bills 57 and 58 include budget amendments-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 112
CHAIR LEE: No, wait, wait, wait. We need a second. Who's the second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGiMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Second by Member Sugimura.
Okay, Member King, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Both Bills 57 and 58 include budget
amendments for South Maui District funds, which I requested . . .
CHAIR LEE: Only on the Rule. On, only on the Rule.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, that's the urgency. That was on the urgency of the Rule.
The urgency regards . . . Fiscal Year 2022 funds for grant applicants to receive
approval for the . . . prior to the start of the Fiscal Year 2023.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore comments, questions on the Rule?
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. You know, I, I'm looking at the
transcription and I just, I, and I was following along on the agenda as the Clerk was
reading it, and she stopped at Kula Agricultural Park, which is Bill 56. So, I, I don't
know when she read Bills 57, 58, and 59. I was just wondering when? Cause I'm
looking at the transcription and it, it's showing that that's what happened.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Rather than go back and forth, why don't you just read, call up 57 and 58.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. That was a referral to Budget Finance and Economic Development
Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4. 2022
Page 113
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 57 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL,
AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 58 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL
PROGRAMS
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you want to make your motion again, Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I guess I'll start back with the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, the waiver. And the, and the seconder was, I think, Member Sugimura.
Okay, so we have that.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 57 AND 58 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, seconded by Member Sugimura. Then, discussion? The short version
the short. . .
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 114
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, this, this regards my South Maui District funds for this
current year, which is coming to a close.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore comments on the waiver. If not, all those in favor of the waiver,
raise your hand and say "aye". Member Kama?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight "ayes", one "excused zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. I was just thinking, one of the things that's
been confusing about listening to the bills is the, I think the Clerk's been going back
and forth to try to keep all the same ones in one Committee and we don't necessarily
follow in numerical order. So, that's where the confusion is coming in.
OKAY, SO I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 57 AND 58 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bills 57 and
58 on first reading.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, these two bills, they, they, they will do two
things. One, they will reduce the, one reduces the amount of money going to the
Fourth Friday from 20,000 to 10,000, because 20,000 was the original amount for the
entire year. And they intend to start back up but there's less than half a year left. And
then, another one would, would take the, and that's where that 10,000 goes back into
the, the South Maui fund.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 115
And then the, the other bill would take the $10,000 that was allotted to the KCA, the
Kihei Community Association, for the green bike lanes, which you heard about earlier,
and give that 10,000 to the Department of Public Works. Department of Public Works
is willing to do the project, but they need the funds for the material, because apparently
the paint is very expensive when you pick the kind of paint that has to last outside with
vehicle going over it. This would, this would allow others, some other project that would
like to get funded in South Maui, this will, would be, what's in there already, this fully
developed 35,000, something like that, back in the fund.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, please
raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCi, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes"; one "excused". Member Johnson; zero "noes". Motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, continuing with, or proceeding with bills up for second and final
reading.
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 2, CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE REPEALING SUBSECTION 3.48.305(C),
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO CLASSIFICATION OF REAL PROPERTY
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 116
COUNTY CLERK: Bill 3. CD1 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS
TO ESTIMATED"-
CHAIR LEE; Madam, Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes?
CHAIR LEE: So, you, you read the others, 52, 59, 53, 54, 55, 56?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: But somehow you missed 57 and 58?
COUNTY CLERK: I don't, i don't think I did, but it might have been cut off when Akaku wasn't
filming.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay. Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, just-
COUNTY CLERK; 1 did, I did lump that with 51.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Just checking. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Bill 3, excuse me for just a moment. One at a time.
CHAIR LEE; One at a time.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Bill 2.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. If there are no objections, may 1 request the
Clerk to also call up Bill 3, CD1; Bill 4, Bill 8, CD1 through Bill 10, CD1; Bill 18, CD1
through Bill 20, CD1; Bill41, FD1; Bill 43 through 45; Bill47; Bill 48; and Bill 50? Those
are all the BFED items.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 117
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, all the BFED items. Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections. Okay.
Madam Clerk, all the BFED items.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, thank you. Thank you, Vice-Chair.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 3, CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUi COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
PARKS AND RECREATION. GENERAL FUND,
KEPANIWAI HERITAGE GARDENS IMPROVEMENTS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 4 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
KEPANIWAI HERITAGE GARDENS IMPROVEMENTS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 118
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO._8,.CD1_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
PAIA-HAIKU COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
PARKS AND RECREATION, BOND FUND,
HAIKU PARK RESTROOM:
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 9. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
HAIKU PARK RESTROOM
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 10.CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION - HAIKU PARK
RESTROOM)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 119
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 18, CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAlLUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 19 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL,
WAlLUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA.
OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 20. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(OFFICE OF COUNTY COUNCIL - OFFICE OF COUNCIL
SERVICES OFFICE RENOVATIONS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 120
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 41.FD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL, COUNCIL SERVICES PROGRAM; TOTAL
OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS; TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 43 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2022
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B, REVENUES - FEES. RATES, ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, BIKEWAY FUND,
ELECTRIC FOOT SCOOTER
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 44 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 45 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS REVOLVING FUND
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 121
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 47 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES. AND
SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND (ACQUISITION OF WEST MAUI
PARK SITE)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 48 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES
AND SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND
(ACQUISITION OF WEST MAUI PARK SITE)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 50 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL U\NGUAGE
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
ALOHA HOUSE
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
Bill 2, CD1 repeals Section 3.48.0, 305(C), to ensure that properties are classified to
the tax category that aligns with their actual use.
Bill 3, CD1 and 4, Bill 4, amend the Budget bill and Appendix C to add funding and a
project description under Department of Parks and Recreation for Kepaniwai Heritage
Garden Improvements, in the amount of $753,027.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 122
Bill 8, CD1 through Bill 10. CD1, amends the Budget bill, the Appendix C bill, and the
Bond Authorization bill, to add funding and a project description under the Department
of Parks and Recreation for the Haiku Park Restroom in the amount of $745,000.
Bill 18, CD1 through Bill 20, CD1, amends the Budget bill. Appendix C, and Bond
Authorization bill, to add the Office of the County Council Office Renovations, in the
amount of $519,000.
Bill 14, CD1 /s/c/amends the Fiscal Year'22 Budget to add additional funding for Office
of Council Services Operations Budget for the upcoming transition, office transitions.
Bill 43 amends the Fiscal Year '22 Budget, Appendix B, Revenues - Fees, Rates,
Assessments and Taxes for Department of Finance, Bikeway Fund, for $30 for electric
foot scooters, in accordance with, in accordance with HRS 249-35.
Bills 44 and 45 amend FY 22 Budget and Appendix D by adding conditional language
for two projects: 1) an Ethnographic Study and Cultural Impact Assessment for a
purpose built facility for hula, in the amount of $175,000; and 2) a preservation and
access plan for the Molokai Glass House at Mapulehu, a County owned property, in
the amount of $250,000.
Bill 47 and Bill 48 amend Appendix A, Part II, and Appendix D, to appropriate an
additional $800,000 from Open Space, Natural Resource, Cultural Resource, and
Scenic Views Preservation Fund. And to specify the TMK for the acquisition of
approximately 51-acres for a park site in Lahaina, Maui, or Kahana, Mailepai, Alaeloa,
Kaanapali, Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii.
Finally, Bill 50 amends the Fiscal Year '22 Budget, Appendix D. by deleting Condition
B.6.c(4).(xxvi).(a).{2), reading "Aloha House must submit a report that details how
many homeless and unsheltered individuals were serviced, including how many had a
V1-SPDAT assessment or are in the Homeless Management Information System", as
this grant is for planning, design, and permitting. And I ask for the Members continued
support of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, that's quite a bit. Members questions, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I have a couple comments on  acouple of items. Bill 2, the
Croly-Paltin bill. I just wanted to recognize it. I've been wanting to do that for a long
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 123
time, but it wouldn't have been possible without the ‘aina kupuna bill. And so, thank
you to Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
The Kepaniwai Heritage Gardens, also, it brings resolution to when we went to the
bahay kubo and everybody was asking, what about the Hawaiian hale? So, thank you
to the Department for that one, as well as Bill 4.
And for the bill, the 50-acre park at Mailepai, that's been a long time coming. I also
just wanted to thank former Member Cochran for putting that in as a condition for
Pulelehua. Thank you to the Planning Department for getting us through the West
Maui Community Plan so that we could do, cause it was supposed to be concurrent
with that. And~
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Could you just hold up a second?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Sure thing.
CHAIR LEE: We don't, we don't have a motion on the floor.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, shoot.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought, I thought she made the motion and I seconded it?
Or was that only for Bill 2?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, maybe that was for the waiver. I don't know.
Or there wasn't a waiver. I, I thought I did make the motion?
CHAIR LEE: Well, can you just make it? Because I've been advised you didn't.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: She made the motion for all of those bills, and we went through
the whole list.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: I, I thought you did too. But I've been advised by staff that, that they don't have
a record of the motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 124
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure. I made them repeat stuff. They can make me
repeat stuff. It's okay.
ALRIGHT, I MOVE TO PASS BILL 2. CD1 THROUGH BILL 4;
BILLS, CD1 THROUGH BILL 10, GDI; BILL 18, GDI THROUGH
BILL 20, GDI; BILL 41, FD1; BILL 43 THROUGH 45; BILL 47;
BILL 48; AND BILL 50 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we got it all down on the record. And-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; -we. we already heard Member Paltin's discussion. Did you have anything else
to add?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. Just, you know, yay, yay, go team.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good. Anybody else? Vice-Chair, you don't have anything to, oh
wait, we have one more.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good job with all this work. And I wonder if Member Paltin
would point me in the direction, so I can do a site visit for your new park at the
appropriate time, you know? Yeah. Okay, good. You and I are good at that, so want
to do a site visit.
And about that Kepaniwai Park, when you and I were both at the bahay kubo, 1 just
want to add that the bahay kubo does need water and electricity. So. I just want to
throw it in, cause I'm working on that thought with the Parks Department. And I, I look
forward to seeing the, the hale being done. So, thank you everybody for this. And let's
go.
CHAIR LEE: Let's go with more discussion. Anybody else?
Member Rawlins-Fernandez, you don't have anything else to add? We're ready for
the vote.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 125
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You want me to talk to some more. Chair?
CHAIR LEE; Not really.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, I don't have anything more to add. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Alright. All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Nine, eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused": Member Johnson. Motion'
carries. Very good.
Now, Madam Clerk, do we just have one left, or did we skip others?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair, we have Bill 23 left. And that's for second and final reading
as well.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, could you read it?
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 23. CD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BUILDING CODE RELATING TO
ENERGY AND WATER USE PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKING
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. This is a little bit like a fly in the ointment,
because there were so many that were all BFED, and this is only ... but let's see if we
can get through this one quickly.
CHAIR, I MOVE TO PASS BILL 23, CD1 (2022) ON SECOND
AND FINAL READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 126
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member King, seconded by Member Sugimura, to pass Bill 23 on
second and final reading.
Discussion, Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Your CARE Committee met on February 2,
2022, to discuss Bill 23 (2022), to implement procedures for providing energy use data,
benchmarking energy performance, and publicly disclosing energy performance for
covered facilities owned by the County of Maui.
We made a couple of minor changes, and we also changed the oversight of the, the
department that would be overseeing this, this ordinance from the Finance Department
to the Managing Director. At which point the, the Committee asked me to meet with
the Managing Director to make sure that he was okay with that, which I did. And he
has no problem with it, with the understanding that, you know, that the Managing
Director can always delegate somebody to handle his duties. At the Council's meeting,
oh, so that passed out of Committee 5-2, with that one concern.
At the Council's meeting on February 18, 2022, Members discussed reviewing a
revised copy of Bill 23 received from Corporation Counsel, which was uploaded into
Granicus. During that discussion, Office of Council Services advised that Bill 23, CD1,
which was modeled after the Honolulu ordinance, is a good bill with understandable
language, and has, has had no legal challenges. Changes recommended by
Corporation Counsel may be of more use if we look to benchmark beyond County
facilities.
However, because this measure is purely focused on County facilities, there is no
urgency to send it back to Committee to make those changes. It is also not a
requirement to obtain the approval of Corporation Counsel on Council drafted
legislation, keeping this, this action in line with policy, and rendering the new bill
provided by Corporation Counsel unnecessary.
Bill 23 is a good bill. It's simply written, clear and understandable. And I respectfully
ask for the Members support of my motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Do we need roll call?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, Kelly, for this. And I did get a copy of the
Johnson Control [sic], their bid, I guess, their contract, which is in motion. It's not
signed, yet.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, I did . . . I'm fine with this, it wasn't signed at the time
of the meeting. I guess it's in transition, but it's happening. So, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you for that, for asking about that. They, they, they
are in RFP. They have a potential contractor, and so they're waiting on the, they have
a potential contract signature pending.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Almost signed. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Oh, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, just wanted to thank all of the people
who came up in, in support, spoke positive testimony for this, and for all of our
personnel that, our scientific personnel that helped to kind of go through all the different
projects. Mahalo nui. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? If not, all those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON.
one "excused"; Member Johnson. Motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Alright.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 128
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE; You're welcome.
Madam Clerk, did we miss anything? Do we have anything else?
COUNTY CLERK; No, Chair. There is no further business before the Council.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members before I adjourn, you want to make any announcements?
Anybody getting married, divorced?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, I, I'm going to excuse myself right now because I'm going
to see if I can make it to the lottery.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, yeah. Okay. Have a good weekend. Have a good weekend.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, everybody, have a good weekend. Aloha.
(Councilmember King was excused from the meeting at 2:39 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, anything? Once, twice.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I have.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Tomorrow is Pulehu Posse, so we're cleaning up
Pulehu Road by the Central Maui solid waste facility. But we're on Pulehu Road
cleaning from 7:30 to 11:00. And thank you everybody who participates including
Maui Nui, who has joined the crew. So, it becomes  agreater force. Appreciate that.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Just so happens I'm busy from 7:30 to 10:30.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Golfing?
CHAIR LEE; Yeah.
Member Sinenci, did you have your hand up?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
March 4, 2022
Page 129
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Ah, no. I just wanted to reiterate Member Paltin's, send our
condolences to the Atay Ghana. And just to wish all the ladies out there hauoli . . .
women's month.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Anybody else? If not, I'm going to
gavel out. Okay, this meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of March 4, 2022 was adjourned by the Chair at 2:41 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220304/!ks:jm
RECEi ED
mi MR A!1 7: 50
r- r- [ /--V r- ^ -■»- I 1
or riuc OF ! He
COUNTY CLERK
March 3 2022
TO: Maui County Council Chair Alice Lee
Vice Chair Keani Rawlins Fernandez
Council Members
SUBJECT: Support FOR Bill 52 for an ordinance amending section 14.21A.015, Maui
County Code, relating to prohibited discharge standards.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council:
My name is Hannah Bernard and I am representing Hawai'i Wildlife Fund as Executive
Director and Co-Founder. Mahalo nui loa, thank you for the opportunity to submit our
testimony in strong support of Bill 52 for an ordinance amending section 14.21A.015, Maui
County Code, relating to prohibited discharge standards. We wish to see these higher
standards applied for wastewater discharge, as we now know the significant connection
between our wastewater discharges, injection wells, and the health of our environment.
We encourage the Council to refer this important ordinance to CARE Committee for a
thorough discussion on our wastewater management as it relates to environmental impact.
Mahalo for your consideration and continued progress in protecting our environment
Hannah Bernard
Executive Director
Hawaii Wildlife Fund
P.O. Box 790637 ● Paia ● HI ● 96779 * (808)280-8124 * wild@aloha.net ●
wvvvv.wildhavvaii.org
Comit^£lerk
TTFTf
From:
Sent:
sanna kauhane <sannakauhane@gmail.com>
Thursday, March 3, 2022 10:06 PM
County Clerk
Support for West Maui Surface and ground water designation!
Z0?Z MAR -4 AH 7: 50To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don't often get email from sannakauhane@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha council members.
My name is Sanna Ka'uhane, my 'ohana and I live in West Maui, in Honokdhau valley and we support moving ALL of west
Maui into a surface and ground water designation area.
The CWRM staff submittal clearly shows that this designation is sorely needed. We already have two aquifer systems at
90% of sustainable yields. This is a huge triggerthat action needs to be taken immediately!!
The submittal also clearly states that ALL of the aquifer systems in west Maui are so closely connected with each other
that it is imperative that designation happens for all of west Maui as a whole, as opposed to just placing the said
threatened aquifers under designation.
We need to take this proactive step in the right direction to protect our resources for the future generations to come.
Mahalo nui loa.
Sanna Ka'uhane
"Have a nice day!
1
V''EDRECi:■ I
03/02/22
mi HAR -4 AH 7: 50
Aloha kakahiaka,
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
My name is Karyn Kanekoa and 1 am testifying this morning on behalf of Na Mamo
Aloha 'Aina o Honokdhau..A 501c3 non-profit hui made up of Honokohau valley
residents and lineal decendants. We are commited to restoring and protecting the
natural resources, cultural sites and practices throughout Honokohau valley.
We'd like to start out by thanking you all for taking the time to listen to testimony
today and for all your aloha 'aina efforts across the pae 'aina! Mahalo nui!
We support CWRM's reccomendation to designate the entire Lahaina aquifer
sector as a surface and ground water management area. We have experienced
steadily decreasing rainfall and stream flow in recent years. Designation, and the
permitting requirements that accompany it, are critical to address these and
other water availability issues brought on by climate change. Projections estimate
even more population growth and development in our small town. It is important
to secure our water future now for generations to come. We beleive that
designation is necessary to protect and restore traditional and customary Native
Hawaiian rights and practices, including kalo cultivation.
This is all very important to us being that the kahawai and the 'aina cannot speak
for themsieves. There's an 'olelo no'eau that we live by..."He 'aii'i ka 'aina, he
kauwa ke kanaka"Land is chief, man is it's ser\/ent. Let's all work together, using
best practice, to ensure that Honokohau stream life and it's people can continue
to live pono for generations upon generations. Mahalo nui ia 'oukou pakahi a pau!
Mahalo nui!
Count^£le^
From:
Sent:
Erik Meade <em21@hawaii.edu>
Thursday, March 3, 2022 12:28 AM
County Clerk
Written testimony in support of resolution no. 22-73 Supporting The Designation Of
The Lahaina Aquifer Sector As Surface Water And Ground Water Management Area
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from em21@hawaii.edu. Learn why this is important
Aloha and thank you for allowing me to testify in support of resolution no. 22-73.
I'm a law student at William S. Richardson and in light of the request to keep testimony short, I would like to offer my
praise for those supporting resolution no. 22-73 Supporting The Designation Of The Lahaina Aquifer Sector As Surface
Water And Ground Water Management Area. West Maui has been experiencing a steadily decreasing rainfall and
stream flow. Designation is critical to address water availability and the continuing conflicts brought on by climate
change, not even considering projected growth impacts not planned for.
Mahalo,
Erik Meade
OO
73O-n
C ! i I
50"1 m OI
“<
o 5S-
mm H ● ●X
X.T O
1