MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-11-04
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=2669,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MINUIES
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
November 4, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD IN THE MAYOR'S CONFERENCE ROOM, KALANA O MAUI
BUILDING, WAILUKU, HAWAII AND ONLINE VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2022, BEGINNING AT 9:06 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L. LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Willthe Maui County Council regularCouncil meeting of
November 4,2022, please come to order. ItIsapproximately9:06 a.m. Good morning,
everyone. We have a greetingfrom Africatoday. Just incase you go shopping and
you run intosomebody from Africa,Uganda, you can say, chikati,chi kati.
So, may we have rollcall.Madam Clerk?
ROLL CALL
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L.KAOHU: Chair,proceeding withrollcall.Members participating
from non-publiclocationsshould statewho, ifanyone, except minors. Ispresent with
them as partof the rollcall.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chi kati.Chair and aloha kakahiaka kakou my Maui hikina.
For the record, we're broadcasting this morning from the Hana DistrictOffice at
4974 Uakea Road, with my districtstaffMavis Medeiros. And currently.Chair,there
are no testifiers.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and chi kati.Madam Chair, and my fellowcolleagues,
and everyone else joiningus for our Council meeting today on Friday,November 4.
I'm transmittingfrom our DistrictOffice here in Paia over at Heritage Hall. I'm
accompanied by districtofficespecialistJade Rojas-Letisiand there are no testifiers.
Mahalo, Madam Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 2
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember KellyTakaya King
CHAIR LEE; Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chi katitoyou, Councilmember and community members,
and Chair. Iam here in the Lanai DistrictOffice. There are no testifiers.And Iam also
with Roxanne Morita and Denise Fernandez. And we are here and ready to work.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Alohakakahiakakakou my chickadees.Broadcasting liveand
directfrom Kalana Pakui and Iam alone in thisofficeroom righthere. There isother
folks outside of the room, and we have no testifierswaiting to testifyat the Lahaina
DistrictOffice.Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki LeiSugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning,everybody.Iam on the ninthfloordoing
thismeeting.AppreciatetheAdministration'ssupport.And I'm rightnext door to allof
the wonderful testifiers.There's a whole room fullof people waitingto testifyon our
agenda. So, thankyou verymuch and good morning,everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Tern Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka. Chair,and chi kati to all the chickadees that
are out there. Iam inmy home office,and Iam alone. Looking forward to a wonderful
meeting today.Chair. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 3
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Excused.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: I'm here alone inmy workspace today. Members, as you know, and the public
may not know, that because of our elections,we're not able to use our chamber today.
So, that'swhy we're sortof allscattered allover the place. And the Mayor allowed us
to use his conference room for testifiers. We look forward to a very efficientlyrun
meeting today inthe sense thatwe, the goal isto stop at 4:30 and then reconvene next
week ifneed be. So, Iencourage alltestifiersto testifyat the beginning ratherthan at
the end, because we're not sure when the end isgoing to be. Please proceed. Madam
Clerk.
Mr. Clerk.
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA, GABRIEL JOHNSON, TAMARA A.M. PALTIN,
COUNCILMEMBER YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A.
KAMA, AND CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KELLY T. KING AND VICE-CHAIR KEANI
N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ
(Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Councilmember Kelly T. King were not present
when the rollwas called;however, they arrived at 9:15 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.,
respectively.)
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there are seven Members present,two Members excused, and no
Member absent. A quorum ispresent to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record,Iam Clerk,County Clerk Kathy Kaohu. Also present from the Officeof
the County Clerk are Legislative Division staffJoyce Murashiqe, Lauren Saldana, and
Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of the Corporation Counsel is FirstDeputy
Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 4
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Opening remarks willbe provided by PresidingOfficerPro Tern Kama. Pro Tern Kama.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Councilmember Tasha Kama.
(Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez arrivedat the meeting at 9:15 a.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Very beautiful.Thank you.
Let the record show that we have Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez who justjoined us.
Good morning, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Aloha kakahiaka, Chair, my Molokai nui ahina. I'm
at the Molokai DistrictOffice, alone here at the office. There are no testifiershere at
the Molokai district. And mahalo Pro Tern Kama for those beautiful words. And I'd like
to honor. . . Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Now, Members, please joinme, and everyone please joinme inthe
Pledge of Allegiance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recitedthe Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Members. Madam Clerk,please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no ceremonial resolutions. But proceeding with testimony
on setting the Consent Calendar, under item F. Setting the Consent Calendar.
Members of the publicmay testifyin the, inthe ninthfloor... at courtesy testimony
sites,or remotely through the information listedon the meeting agenda. Individualsin
the meeting locationmay sign up to testifywith the staffmember located inthe eighth,
on the ninthfloorlobby area.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 5
Individualsat courtesy testimony sitesmay sign up with staffat the site. Individuals
participatingremotely may sign up in the meeting chat. And ifyou are connected to
the meeting by phone, you willautomaticallybe added to the testifierlist.Individuals
connected by phone are currentlyon mute and willbe unmuted when itistheirtime to
testify.Individualsconnected by video conference should keep both theirvideo and
microphones offand should turn them on only when itistheirturn to testify.
Testimony islimitedto the items listedon the agenda. Individualsmay testifyforup to
three minutes with one minute to conclude per item. When testifying,please stateyour
name and the name of any organizationyou represent,as well as the items on which
you willbe testifying.Please also identifyto the Council ifyou are a paid lobbyist.
Individualsmay also be disconnected from the meeting at any time for breaking
decorum. At thistime, individualsmay testifyon the settingof the Consent Calendar.
Chair, we have no individualsset up, signed up to testifyon the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Ifanyone wants to testifyon the settingof the Consent Calendar, please
identifyyourself now. Okay, no one is indicatingthat they'd liketo testifyon the
Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are there any objectionsto closing publictestimony and accepting
writtentestimony forthe settingof the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, atthistime,we willsetthe Consent Calendar. As a reminder,
the calendar can stillbe adjusted even afteritisset. Are there any requested changes
to the Consent Calendar at this time?
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I'dliketo pullnumber 22-278.
CHAIR LEE: 22-278. Any objections,Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other items?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 6
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; On the general communications, I'dliketo pull22-7 and 22-8.
Allthree to my Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objectionsto referring22-278, 22-7, and 22-8 to the PSLU
Committee, Members?
(See pages 66 and 67 fordiscussion.)
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Any other changes? No other changes. The Consent Calendar, ifthere are no
objections,the Consent Calendar isset.
Members, before proceeding,Iam notifyingyou thatIwillbe enforcing Rule 9.F. No
Member may speak more than twiceon any pending motion. Members may speak for
one minute during those opportunities.We're kind of on a tightschedule today. We
would reallylove to finishby 4:30.
Madam Clerk,please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceedingwithagenda SectionG. Minutes. We have no testifiers
signed up to testifyon minutes. Ifanyone wants to testifyon minutes, please identify
yourselfnow. This isthe lastcallfortestimony on thisitem.
CHAIR LEE: There'sno one elseto testify.Okay. Members, ifthere are no objectionsto
closingpublictestimony and acceptingwrittentestimonyforminutes?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse me, Chair, Iwent out of order. And we are talking,we are on item
D. on the agenda, Presentationof Writtenor Oral Testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 7
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed. That'sfunny, Idon'thave item D. on my calendar. Please
proceed, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Hold on forjusta moment. So, we're going to proceed with
testimony,presentationof writtenor oraltestimony. And our firsttestifieris Mr. Tim
Pang. To be followedby Steven Butler.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Steven Pang? Please callup the name again.
COUNTY CLERK: Tim Pang. To be followedby Steven Butler.
CHAIR LEE: Oh. Okay, next.
COUNTY CLERK: Next is Lucienne de Naie.
MR. STEVEN BUTLER ttestifvinaon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Oh, I'msorry.I'mSteven Butler.Iwas waitingforTim. Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Excuse me. We have Mr. Steven Butler coming to the podium in-person.
MR. BUTLER: Good morning. My name isSteven Butler.I'm the owner of Maui Adventure
Vans. I'm here to testifyon the effectsof Bill159 on my business and family. I have
legallybeen operating under the currentwrittenletterof the law since 2018. I've
obtained the appropriatebusiness licenses,paid State,Federal, and local taxes. I
startedmy business organically,with hard work.
Four-and-a-halfyears ago, Ibuiltmy firstvan so thatmy then three year old son and 1
could explore nature and bond together. Over a short time, a friend or a friend of a
friend would calland ask to use the van that Ibuilt.And Islowly realizedthatthiscould
become a sidebusiness formyself. Ithen builtanother van and repeated the process.
In time, I was able to quit my full-timejob and focus on my business, which has
dramaticallyimproved the qualityof my life,as wellas my family.
I,likeeveryone elsehere,sufferedthroughthe pandemic. And likeeveryone else here,
Ihad to stop operating.During the pandemic, Iaccepted a substantial SBA loan and
used thatSBA loan to develop and expand my business. That loan'sfirstpayment is
due in17 days. When Isigned those documents two years ago, Iwas not aware that
everything Ihad worked forand invested would be threatened not by a lack of interest,
but threatened by my localgovernment. The financialinvestment I'vemade and taken
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 8
on, ifnot allowed to properlyoperate my business,willcripplemy familywith clearlong
term adverse effects.
In 2021, when Isaw an articlewith an ambulance that struggled to deliverhelp to the
East Maui area due to an overwhelming rentalcar trafficand road blockage issue, I
self-governedand stopped allowingmy rentalvans to visitthe Hana area for over four
months.
My company donates to homeless shelters. We donate to youth sports. We only use
recyclable materials and . . .reusable materials. And Ipersonally vet each and every
one of my guests without being toldor forced, i also require my guests to have . . .
reservationsnot park on the side of the road or on beaches. Ideeply care about Maui.
Maui ismy home.
I do not operate unscrupulously, I believe my small business helps to expand the
appreciationand respect fornature... I'm humbly asking for consideration to include
in your decision-making process a provisionthatwould allow businesses, likemine,
who have acted in accordance with the law to obtain a permit forone of those, and not
one of those mythical permits that are impossible to obtain. Please offera provision
eitherto be grandfathered in so that our businesses can continue to operate properly,
responsibly and respectivelyto our island. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? Any clarifyingquestions? Ifnot,may
we have the next testifier?Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier.Chair, isTim Pang. To be followed by Lucienne de
Naie.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. TIM PANG [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning, Maui County Council and aloha. My name isTim Pang, and I'm a co
owner of Zazu Campers LLC, a jeep camper rentalbusiness here on Maui. I'm here
to voice my opposition to the amended language in Section 19.36B.120 of the
proposed Bill159 as itpertainsto camper vans.
So, a littlebitabout me. Iwas born on Kauai and raised on Maui almost my whole life.
Igraduated from Baldwin High School and went to LinfieldCollege inOregon to pursue
a bachelor's degree in business marketing. After graduating college. I moved back
home to Maui to do marketing fora locallyowned grocer. After sixyears of service at
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 9
Island Grocery Depot, Itook the leap of co-owning a jeep camper business with two
like-mindedpartners. Iloved working fora localcompany, but with dreams of owning
my own home on Maui, I knew itwas time to take a leap of faith. Co-owning the
business has also given me the flexibilityto be able to give back to the community
through coaching high school basketball.
Our business provides guests with a unique way to experience the beautifuloutdoor
atmosphere that Maui has to offerwithout spending $600-$1,000 a nightto stay at a
resort.Passing Bill159 willnot only eliminateour unique and affordableoffering,but
itwillopen the door formore billsto pass thatwould make my home Maui a place only
the rich can afford to visit.
Although creatingan affordableoption forvisitorsis importantto me, itisn'tthe main
reason Idecided to buildthisbusiness. My father,the lateChef Tylun Pang, has been
a huge influenceon why we love what we do. My fatherwas the epitome of aloha. He
understood and mastered the balance of giving back to the community, while showing
visitorsthrough hiscraft,what the aloha spiritisallabout.
As a small local business owner, I try my best every day to continue his legacy by
guiding our visitorsto trulyappreciatethisplace we callhome, while instillingvalues of
respect forthe land,ocean and most importantlythe people thatlivehere. As a chef,
my father also made ita point to support localwhenever possible through sourcing
from local farmers and local fishermen. Our business also allows,follows his example
by steeringour guests to support localbusinesses, especiallyinHana, such as Uncle
Russell's Hull Hull Chicken and Braddah Hutts. We preach the importance of
supporting local,because that'sjusthow Iwas raised.
IfBill159 were to pass, our livesas business owners, as well as the localfriendsand
familieswe've hired would be turned upside down. The localpeople we hired,justlike
most of us that livehere work part-timewith us as a second job,justto make ends
meet. Ourselves as business owners have taken on a considerable amount of debt
on our rentalfleetand our property lease where we keep our vehicles. We, likemost
of the localcommunity, are not rich.Like a lotof people my age, Istillliveinmy parent's
house. We are justtryingto liveand surviveinthisplace we callhome.
We are here today asking for a compromise. We worked very hard to provide our
guests with the toolsthey need to enjoy the island,as wellas show respecttothe local
community they are visiting.As a hardworking localmember of the community, I
deserve the opportunityto at leastwork with our County officialsto amend and/oromit
the portionof the billregarding camper vans. Through our collaborativeeffort,Ifeel
confident in our abilityas operators to address any and allissues mentioned by the
Council. Let's take some time to clarifythe concerns and come together to find a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 10
solution that allows our local business to continue operating. Mahalo for taking the
time to listen.Ilook fonA/ardto working with you ail.Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Pang. Questions. Members?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Pang. Mahalo for your
testimony thismorning. My clarifyingquestion is regarding compromise. You didn't
suggest what the compromise was, justomit or amend. Did you have an amendment
that you were suggesting?
MR. PANG: Yes. I mean, at thispoint,we're just looking to not just cancel our business
altogether,and justtryto finda compromise as to kind of clarifythe concerns from the
Council, so thatwe can, as collectivelyas operators tryto address them instead ofjust,
kind of like,canceling alltogether.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, mahalo foryour response, Mr. Pang. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Pang, foryour testimony. I
just was wondering do you require proof that they have a designated campground
that'sallowed before you do your rental?
MR. PANG: As of rightnow, we don'trequireproof. But we do send them a, likea extensive
pdf on the allowed campsites.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thanks. The next question ihad, cause we're on a time
crunch, does your organizationpay the TAT?
MR. PANG: Yes, we do.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you. Bye-bye.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And mahalo, Mr. Pang, foryour testimony
thismorning. You're stillable to camp at the State parks, as well as the National parks?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 11
MR. PANG: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Alright.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Pang.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Sean Mullen. To be followed by Todd Semmerling.
MR. SEAN MULLEN [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning, Council. Iam Sean Mullen from Camper Van Hawaii. Ijust found out
a couple of weeks ago that Bill159 passed and had a cause to completely prohibit
renting camper vans as transient accommodations. Ifthis billis enacted as written,
thiswillbe devastating to our company and allseven of our employees who relyon
thisincome from employment to support them and theirfamilies.
We believethatthisindustryisgood for Maui as itencourages our customers to be
stewards of the land, because we educate them about howto be an akamai visitorand
respect the land and local culture. Instead of being stuck on a resortfor the trip,
thinkingof Maui as justa big old hotel,our customers are able to venture out and learn
more about differentparts of Maui, and stay in a varietyof camp spots across the
island. They also spend money while out on the road at local establishments,
supporting businesses and theirfamiliesas well.
We are startingour seventh year in business rentingcamper vans. Our business
creates a livelihood for us, as well as owners, as well as our employees. We also
trickle-downsupport toour warehouse landlords,gas stations,body shops, mechanics,
carwashes, auto partshops, and localvendors thatwe spend money every day forour
business.
Ifwe had to stop rentingour camper vans, our business would go under, as we would
have no way to pay our bills,which would probably lead us to filingforbankruptcy as
we have loans and lease obligationsthatwe could not fulfill.This would lead us also
not be able to pay our mortgage, as thisisour only income and would most likelylead
to a foreclose on our home, since our steady income from our business iswhat allowed
us to become homeowners inthe firstplace. This iswhy Ihaven't gotten a good night's
sleep inthe past two weeks and why my family isvery stressed rightnow.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 12
We work with allour customers to findthem legalplaces to camp and requirethem to
show us proof of camping reservationspriorto coming to the islandto rentthe van.
We have absolute zero-toleranceforcamping illegallyand have wording inour contract
that ifwe find out they camp illegally,they would forfeittheirsecuritydeposit. We
understand thatour community does not want our camper vans parked in illegalspots
or on the side of the road, and we monitor where they are parked with GPS.
I understand one reason for the billis to stop illegalcamping along the west side
beaches and we have made great stridesto stop thisas a company internallyby
regulatingwhere they could camp.
As forover tourism,we do agree that,you know, Maui has become very busy in the
past few years and stopping our business willnot make a bigdifferenceinthisproblem.
Our camper van business, on average, brings about one thousand visitorsto Hawaii
each year,accounting forfour-tenthousandths of one percent of the amount of people
that visit the island. We also have about nine vehicles which is,accounts for about
five-tenthousands of one percent of allrentalvehicleson the road. Okay. That being
said. I'dliketo thank the Council for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. May we, do we have questions. Members? Clarifying
questions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you fortestifying.Your nine vehicles,are they PUC-
regulated?
MR. MULLEN: No, they'renot.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Ididn'thear your answer.
MR. MULLEN: No, they'renot.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: They're not. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much foryour testimony.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisTodd Semmerling.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 13
MR. TODD SEMMERLING [testifyingon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)]:
Aloha and good morning, Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. SEMMERLING: My name isTodd Semmerling. I'mthe owner of Maui Westy Campers,
and I'm gratefulto callMaui my home forthe last22 years. Iown a home and have
childrenwho were born here. Passing Bill159 intolaw would force my business to
close,not allowingme to provideformy family.When Istartedthisbusiness 11 years
ago, #vantife and Turo didn'texist.
Ispecializeinthe iconicVolkswagen campers. My rentersare nature lovers,VW fans,
travelnurses, inter-islandlocals,and they support Maui businesses, restaurants, and
food trucks.They are instructedto book legalcampsites and often drivefewer daily
miles on our roads than touristswho take day tripsback and forth from their
accommodations. Many of my rentersstay at hotelsand condos during theirtime on
Maui and stillopt to rentmy vehiclesthroughouttheirvisitbecause these vehicles are
so convenient, photogenic, and loved.
I am completely in shock that a business I startedover a decade ago can again be
shut down by the government, and suddenly deemed illegal.I pay my taxes, have
good standingwiththe DCCA, and have proper insurance.This ismy life,my invested
interest,and not a side hustle. Ibuiltthis business with the ...always thinkinghow I
providevaluableservicewiththe leastnegativeimpact on the localpopulation and the
land.
Iinformmy renterswhere to camp legallyat our parks,as well as Camp Olowalu. In
fact,my van ison the cover oftheirwebsite. Ido not advertisemy business as a short
term vacation rentalor Airbnb. My business does not threaten affordable housing
issues. Ionlyrentsmallvans thathave the same footprintas a Toyota Corolla,due to
our tinyroads and small parking lots.
Despite the factthatthe pandemic shutdown forced me further intodebt with an SBA
loan justto survive,Ithinkwe allenjoyed livingon Maui without touristsfor a time.
There are many viable avenues to consider with regard to capping tourism and
preserving our beautifulisland. Ido not understand how shuttingdown my legitimate
taxpaying pre-existingsmall business and opening up Maui to develop more tourism
in other ways achieves thisgoal. COVID caused a boom to the camper industry
nationwide and itchanged the way that people vacationed. Passing thisbillwillnot
stop touristsfrom wanting to keep doing this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 14
Our business islegitimate...likemine, functionas filters,educating visitorson island
etiquetteand bringingintax revenue and money intoour localeconomies, notjustbig
corporations.Ifearthatpassing thisbillwill,won't reduce the number ofvehicles along
the road or people livingin them. As a business owner and member of a newly
organized group of camper vehicle operators on Maui, we wish to work collaboratively
with the County and Council to ensure we're able to continue to provide a neat way for
others to visitMaui. Thank you for listeningand your thoughtfulconsideration.
CHAIR LEE; Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Semmerling for being here.
I just have two hopefully quick questions. One, how many companies, such as
yourself,ifyou know, are inexistence here on Maui? And how many vehicles do you
have inyour fleet?
MR. SEMMERLING: As far as Iknow, Ithink there's about seven or eight legitimaterunning
camper companies. And as faras vehicles in my fleet,not allof them are campers.
Some ofthem are regularvehicles,so Iactuallycouldn'tknow the difference.And Ido
have these older iconicVolkswagens, which ifanyone knows anything about these,
they're always needing maintenance. So, they're never always on the road. On
average, on a day, Iprobably have between fourand seven out there.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the
next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Nick Drance.
MR. NICK PRANCE [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Hello,Council. Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
MR. DRANCE: I'm Nick Drance, founder ofTheMauiMiracle.org. Please visitthe website.
It'sabout the Maui we love.
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak a littlelouder,please? Littlelouder.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 15
MR. DRANCE: Oh. Okay. Good morning. I'mNick Drance, founder ofTheMauiMiracle.org.
Visit the website, it'sabout the Maui that we love. Bill159 does not reduce tourist
numbers. As amended, itincreases them. Bill159 does not eliminate jobs. The
Carpenter's Union ishiringrightnow regardless of how you vote on this.Do we owe
some debt to developers and mainland investors,but what isthistalkof compromise
and what's the need for it?
Residents don't want more tourists. Even touristssay what a shame itis to see
paradise lost to pavement, crowds, and trafficjams. And there's no sense of
pretending otherwise. As far as honoring Hawaiian culturegoes and itslove of the
land and the water, if we're going to desecrate this sacred land with asphalt,
unsustainable growth, rightinthe midst of a stage 1 water shortage, then let'sadmit it.
Rainfallinthe West Maui mountains isat 50 percent. Itwillget worse. Central Maui is
at the highest possible drought level. We broke seven temperature records in
September.
So, Rome is burning. We're talkingabout reducing the amount of gasoline that we
pour on the fire.Isthat stewardship? Queen Liliuokalanisaid "Icould not turn back
the time forpoliticalchange, but there isstilltime to save our heritage.You must never,
you must remember never to cease to act because you feelthatyou may fail."1think
she's tellingus to have courage. She also offeredthissage advice,"The way to lose
any earthy kingdom isto be inflexible,intolerant,and prejudicial.Another way isto be
too flexible,tolerantof too many wrongs and withoutjudgment. It'sa razor'sedge. It's
the width of the blade of piligrass." Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Mr. Drance. May we have
the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisFrank Lopez. To be followed by Tony Cobian.
MR. FRANK LOPEZ ftestifvinqon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council. My name is Frank Lopez, and Iam a proud Maui resident. I'm also
one of the small businesses that will,business owners thatwillbe negativelyimpacted
by the implementation of Bill159. My business Kuleana Campers LLC., Kuleana
Campers Maui LLC, has been a partof the Maui community forfour years.
In our years of service,we have created a localecosystem of commerce thatnot only
keeps my family gainfullyemployed, italso provides a source of income forour full
time and part-timeemployees, italso provides consistentincome to the businesses
thatwe use to stay inbusiness where we buy our vehiclesfrom KiheiAuto Sales,Maui
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 16
Toyota. We use Papa's Car Wash and Maui Oil.So. allthose businesses take money
from us daily.
Beyond the source of income, thisecosystem provides a sense of securityand hope
forthe futureforallof our families. Implementing Bill159 means taking away income
from at least a hundred families on the island. In these tough economic times, you are
forciblytaking away the bread that we share with dozens of local families,and
redirectingitto big corporations. This goes against every principlewithinour culture
and the core values of our beloved island.
As you can see, we are here as a united frontto defend our respective legacies and
our rightsto socialequitywithinthe island'stouristindustry.Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisTony Cobian. To be followed by Barry Solomon.
MR. TONY COBIAN [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning. Thank you forallowingme to speak on behalf of our ohana. Iown a
small business, Campcar LLC, which rentscamper vehiclesand rooftoptents.
CHAIR LEE: Please stateyour name forthe record? Your name forthe record.
MR. COBIAN: Oh, yeah. Tony Cobian.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. COBIAN: Thank you for allowing me to speak on behalf of our ohana-owned small
business, Campcar LLC, which rents camper vehicles and rooftoptentsand camping
equipment to localsand visitorsto Maui. I came here with a degree in sustainability
technologies from New Mexico where I collaboratedwith both nationallaboratories,
specializinginalgae,or as we callithere, limu,growing techniques.
About sixyears, Igot hitby a car and suffered a serious concussion, neck and back
injuriesina crosswalk. Iwas unable to work and found myself having to liveina camp
caravan. During thistime, Icame to know the island,and having to move from place
to place, I came to Lahaina. In an effortto utilizethisexperience in a positiveway.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 17
with much effortand hard work, build a successful family owned business based on
these principles.
We pay alltaxes, State,Federal, surplus,and general excise tax, includingpersonal
income taxes,pay staff,and have earned and maintained five-starratingsforthe entire
fiveyears of my business. I have testimonialson that as well. I spend hours with
customers every day ofthe year, literally,recommending localbusinesses, designated
campsites, and great places to visitto people who love and respect true nature.
Our business spends tens of thousands of dollars a year for auto financing,staff,
maintenance upkeep, rentalcamping equipment that isreusable not bought and left,
and many other operating expenses. We contributeto the economy of the Maui and
do our best every day to represent itinthe best light.
From the Universityof Hawaii, Itook culturalclasses,and with shared experience I've
come to learnthe meaning of the word "aina",thatwhich provides. Does that mean
justforsome or forallof us? Inmy direct,itismy directintentionto bringtogetherthe
respect and passion forthe naturalenvironment, and the joy of travelingintoan eco-
friendlycampsite, where camper vehicleadventurers can participateinbest practices.
Sustainable ecotourism with traditional Hawaiian values as I believe in a future we can
allbenefitfrom. Mahalo foryour time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions? Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you for your testimony. I was
wondering what company you use to pump out the human waste?
MR. COBIAN: Idon't.Allof my vehiclesare camper vans. Ido manage personallyowned
RV's and thatisIhave a State permit from the County thatisdone here inKahului.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, you don't-
MR. COBIAN: I'msorry,did Ianswer your question?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: What happens when people need to use the bathroom?
MR. COBIAN: You mean, white they'reon theirvacation?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 18
MR. COBIAN: They use the restaurants. They use the beaches, justlikewe alldo. We go
to the beach, we take showers, use the bathrooms there. And, or they also can stay
at hotels and, friends and condos as well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the
next testifier.
MR. COBIAN: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Barry Solomon. To be followed by Emily Spaeth
Lundberg.
MR. BARRY SOLOMON (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-211):
Aloha kakahiaka. My name is Barry Solomon and I'm here representing the Maui
County Climate Action Advisory Committee. And I wish to speak in support of
Resolution 22-232. And I'llexplain brieflywhy the Maui County . . . and it'stourism
sector should support sustainable tourism certificationand adopt thisresolution.Ihave
four points.
First,the currenttourism industryin Maui County is unsustainable. We know of too
many people visitingwith sometimes poor behaviors, thishas led to crowded beaches,
crowded roads and highways, degraded coral reefs, plasticwaste, overuse of our
precious water resources, and occasional clashes with local residents.
Two, ifyou do not change the currentpath thatthe tourism industryison, many people
actuallywillnot want to visitMaui anymore because the reasons most people come
here willno longerexistinMaui County as the environment degrades. Thus, pursuing
sustainable tourism, sustainable tourism sector is the only way forward by which will
consequently also support and improve Maui's economy, itsenvironment, and its
people inthe long run.
Three, you don't have to travelvery farto figurethisout. Our neighboring island of
Kauai has put some breaks on itstourism sector forvery similarreasons, and it'sdoing
much betterinthatregard.
Finally,while this is only a resolution,adopting sustainable tourism practices and
certificationby Maui willput the Maui County government intoa leadership roleon this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 19
quest thatwillmake you proud and help spread these reforms throughout the State
and beyond. This isa very importantfirststep. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, Mr. Solomon and
thank you foryour work inthisfield.You mentioned Kauai and thatthings are better
on Kauai. Can you be, provide some specifics,what isbetteron Kauai, since they are
looking intothistype of practiceswith managing tourism more?
MR. SOLOMON: Right. They installedsome reservation systems on the north shore, in
particular,which has greatlylowered trafficand congestion in that area, which has
sufferedfrom, you know, floodingand too much trafficand so on. That'sthe primary
benefitat thispoint.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Solomon. Thank you
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. More questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we
have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisEmily Spaeth Lundberg. To be followedby Dina Cline
MS. EMILY SPAETH LUNDBERG [testifying on BillNo. 159, FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning. Chair Lee and Councilmembers. Thank you forhaving me. I'm here
today to testifyinoppositionof the language regarding camper van rentalsincludedin
Bill159, both as an individual business owner and as a participantin the newly
organized group of camper vehicleoperators here on Maui. My name isEmily Spaeth
Lundberg and Iown and operate North Shore Vans, a five-year-oldcamper van rental
business with six vehicles in our fleet.
I'vebeen closelywatching the development of Bill159 and am disappointedwiththe
most recent amendment language. Having previously run a local food delivery
business that connects thousands of consumers directly with local farmers, I
understand the positiveimpact thatthiscan have in our communities. Money spent
with North Shore Vans stays in our localMaui economy.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 20
Our familylivesand shops in Kihei. Our young daughter goes to daycare here in
Wailuku. Our commercial space in Makawao is leased from a Hawaiian public
company. Our operations manager livesin Kula, our mechanic livesinWailuku. Our
guests don'twant to sleep on the side ofthe road,and instead book inadvance of their
stay at accommodations likeCamp Olowalu and other sanctioned campgrounds on
the island. They ask for food and activityrecommendations, in which we always
enthusiasticallyrecommend other localbusinesses, except when itcomes to gas,
because we allknow thatSafeway and Costco have the best prices.
Our guests choose thistravelopportunityas a way to trulyexperience Maui's natural
offeringsand unplug. And inturn learnthe firsthand meaning of malama aina,as well
as discoverthe many small businesses here on the islandbecause they'reactuallyout
exploringversus stayingwithinthe confines of a resort.
Ifan economic study was to be done about the impact of our business and others like
it,Ithinkyou willfindthe dollarsspent with the locallyowned and professionallyrun
camper businesses returns many times over in our localeconomy. And economic
businesses, economic benefits are just one of the many positive impacts from
businesses like ours.
My team and Iput a lotof energy intonurturingour guests and we make sure thatthey
are informed about how to take care of vans, where the proper sanctioned
campgrounds are, at which they make theirreservations ahead of time. We provide
receptaclesfortrashand recycling.And we give them an incrediblyspecialexperience
thatthey would only findhere In Hawaii.
As an operator ina woman owned business and as a mother, Iwant to continue to be
an integralpart of our community so my daughter's generation can grow up and see
the impact that small businesses likeours can have on mobile prosperityand share
the appreciationforthe aina thatwe have the privilegeto pass on to travelerswe host.
I understand that passing this billtoday without amendments is a top priorityof the
Council. However, I'durge you to do what's sensible and fairand amend Bill159 to
remove language regarding camper vans. Though my fellowoperators and I may
differ,we are united inour views that our businesses can provide,towork collaborative,
collaboratively,excuse me, with the Council. Thank you. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions,clarifyingquestions? Ifnot,thank you very much foryour
testimony.
MS. LUNDBERG: Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 21
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Dina Cline. To be followed by Spencer Wright.
MS. DINA CLINE [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022T:
Good morning, Council. I'm Dina Cline and 1 co-own Zazu Campers with Tim Pang
and Spencer Wright. Iappreciate being given thisthree-minute window to share my
experience and Iapologize thatwe are lateto the conversation. We are stilllearning
about billsand legislationand needed some time to organize.
I'm here today to give testimony both as an individualbusiness owner and as a
participantin a newly organized group of camper vehicleoperators on Maui. We've
been inoperationsforover fiveyears and have provided our guests with a listof legal
campsites since we started.We advise allof our campers to stay where itislegalto
camp and to book siteswell in advance. We also encourage guests not to use the
Maui Reveal Book as ithas places listedthatwouldn't be appropriate forthem to go.
We have localemployees on payroll.
Zazu Campers isrooted inthe fundamental beliefof giving back to our community. A
few ofthe ways we have given back, we've given money to the Hana Arts Foundation,
the ... inHana, the KiheiElementary School we gave a bunch of water bottlesto. We
sponsored soccer teams, basketball teams, and donated to UH Maui's CulinaryArts
Program inhonor of the wonderful Chef Tylun Pang.
IfBill159 were to take effect,our liveswould drasticallychange. Priorto creatingthis
business, 1 worked as a nanny providing care to children of working families. This
wasn't handed to me. Itook a riskingrowing thisbusiness and I...myself intocreating
an experience thatalignswith the community values of Maui.
In our extensive welcome letter,we educate guests on how to behave, where to eat
locallyat places likeTin Roof or. .. We explain to them how to drive on the roads so
as not to be annoying. We explain the importance of taking theirtrash away, and
providethem trashbags, and leavingthe land as they found it.We provide educational
videos on Hawaiian historyand current issues thatthe islandfaces interms of climate
change and sustainabilityto every guest. Iwould be more than willingto share this
document with any .. .Councilmembers.
Ilove camping and thisbusiness isa resultofthat love. To lose what we have worked
for,for many years . . . would not just be emotionally devastating, but financially
catastrophic as well. We have a lease on a commercial space, as wellas commercial
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 22
insurance. We are not wealthy. We drivecrappy cars. We hope thatwe can extend
a lineofcommunication to engage with localcommittees to finda win-win solution.We
take pride inwashing our jeeps and maintainingthem. They are the way we pay our
bills.
Ifthisbillwillbe amended in a way to keep our livelihoodgoing, we would be very
thankful. One possibilitywould be for legitimatebusinesses to continue, but maybe
doing away withthose thatdon'thave good standing with the DCCA and ... Ifeelthat
blanket prohibitionon camping would keep more money in the pockets of the big
resorts,includea slew of other unforeseeable regulationand enforcement issues that
could resultin people doing itanyway without having the same values that we stand
for.
I'm optimisticthere is a solution that can work for everyone, and I hope that our
willingnessto participatein this discussion shows how much we care about this
community. I ask the Councilmembers to omit thisportionof the billat thistime and
provide us the time to discuss alternativesolutions that make allof us happy. Thanks
guys.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Questions,Members? Ifnot.thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,our next testifierisSpencer Wright. To be followed by the caller
under Eric.
MR. SPENCER WRIGHT rtestifyinaon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. Thank you fortakingthe time to listento us. We hope that
by hearing some of our testimony we might be able to shed some lighton the camper
situationhere on Maui. We apologize for not being involved in the originalmeeting.
We are new to this world of County Council, and we weren't entirelysure how to
approach this. My name is Spencer Wright, and I am a co-owner of Zazu
Campers LLC. Our rigsare jeeps with rooftoptents on them.
We pay and have paid alltaxes required of us. We are insured and current with the
DCCA. We have kept everythinglegalsince beginning the company in2018 and have
employees on payroll.We have also worked with Fred and Wayne at the Maui SBA,
SBDC; as well as the Maui Economic Development to help make a sustainable
business model. We are graduates of the Patsy T. Mink Grow my Business Program,
and have been to the Blue Startups Conference for Hawaii Business Development.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 23
Iurge you allto reconsider thisblanket prohibition.We inno way send people camping
without very detailed-
CHAIR LEE: Please mute thatperson. Okay, testifieryou may continue.
MR. WRIGHT: Thank you. Iurge you allto reconsiderthisblanket prohibition.We inno way
send people camping without very detailedinstructionson where to camp legally.We
have high expectationsof our guests to stay withinlegalcampgrounds, and they do.
We know thisbecause we receive emails from guests tellingus where they booked,
places likeCamp Olowalu, Wainapanapa State Park, and Haleakala National Park,
and Kipahulu.
I have formerlyworked fortwo small locallyowned businesses here on Maui. I was
encouraged by both of my former employers to work on a small business and grow
something on my own. In2020 we were finallyable to offerownership inthe company
to Tim Pang. The Pang Family has been nothing short of a ... in our livesand
business. We have spent a lotof energy cultivatingthisbusiness to be as ethicaland
moral as we can.
I can certainlyunderstand the desire to regulatethe industry. Overtourism isa real
problem, but we don't believe our small sector isto blame. Our firstfleetwas actually
purchased because we wanted to enjoy the activityourselves. We weren't alone inthe
desire to camp comfortably on Maui. At Zazu Campers, we have had a number of
discussions over the years on ways to regulatethe amount of campers on the island.
Regulation could create a win-win solution for Maui County and for us as small
business owners.
Our guests have recorded some amazing experiences cruisingin the jeeps. Local
residents have rented from us for weekend adventures and father/son trips. We
believewe can help the County come up with legislationthat makes allpartieshappy.
We would inviteany of you to come tryZazu for free and experience what a typical
guest would experience, includingseeing the legalplaces we've sent people to camp
provided inour welcome letter.Connecting tothe land ina meaningful way guides the
guests'experience. Our guests already share the sentiment and arrivewith theirhiking
shoes, lights,stuff,and ready to explore.
I hope to get to know you all. I believe that communities form when people work
together,and Isee thissituationas an opportunityto buildtogether. We appreciate all
of the effortsin draftingthisbill,but we hope to have our voices heard, too. We are
families,constituents,and people thathave worked hard to buildreputable businesses.
We play by allof the rules,and we hope thatyou willconsider giving us some time to
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 24
propose an amendment and/or some regulatoryideas with the help of an attorneythat
understandings Maui County concerns, as well as small business matters. Thank you
foryour time today,Councilmembers. Ireallyappreciatethe opportunityto share some
of my thoughts.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you. May we have
the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris callingin under the name of Eric. And Eric willbe
followed by ChristineDrogowski.
MR. ERIC MALONEY (testifying on Committee Report 22-112):
I'm Eric,but I’m not sure what I'm testifyingfor.
COUNTY CLERK: Did you sign up to testify?
MR. MALONEY: Yeah, but itwas forthe electrothing.The EV thing? Oh, okay. Alright.I'm
new at this.
COUNTY CLERK: Just state your name.
MR. MALONEY: My name isEricMaloney. And I'vebeen residingon Maui for30 years and
I'veseen the changes on Maui. And I'm,or I'mwith the EV Club. And Iguess there
was an opposed amendment. I'm not sure which one itis. Ididn'tdo my homework.
Next time I will.
My concern about the EV thing was we're having troubleswith gettingpublicchargers
out there, and then there's been some other issues about also likeincondo complexes,
and some of the amendments ithinkare passing to where you willhave to have a 220
that'sgoing to plug forcondo complexes forpeople who have condos. Cause that’s
been the issue with the condo owning situationis,oh, wellhow come they got a charger
fortheircar,but then they don't? But anyway, Iknow partofthe problem withthe EV
isthatittakes a lotof EV space to make the electricityforcars.
But what you also have to take intoconsideration isthatwe do have organic energy
that'scoming. We have the sun during the day, which isorganic and we also have the
wind generators. And I personallybelieve in my experience being here for30 years
that ifwe can get offof controllingthe bicarbons from Maui Electric,ifwe can control
that. And we have one source that'sputtingout carbons, insteadof a bunch of cars
running around burning fuel that are puttingout carbons everywhere and not being
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 25
controlled.Because I'veseen people inparking lotsat storesleavingtheircar running
because they need the airconditioner.
So, inailreality,ifwe go EV, we're going inthe rightdirection,and probablyfour,five
years down the road, there's been maybe even, I mean the batterytechnology is
gettingbetter.Also,you know, and Iunderstand thatit'staxingthe grid.But we also
have to understand thatwe have to bring the gridup to the electricera so thatwe, you
know, cause you lookat laoValley,you look atwhat's happening withthe environment.
And I'vewatched inthe past fiveyears those buses going up to laoValley,that'swhy
laoValleyisfallingapart.They say thatdieselburns clear,but1seen dieselthatleaves
residues allover plantsand itkillsum. And so, we have to have a bettersolutionif
we're going to be takingtouriststo differentplaces. And I'mtalkingfrom experience,
because I'm a taxidriver. I'vebeen drivingtaxiforsixyears now. And Iguess that's
allIhave to say. Thank you. Any questions?
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK; The next testifierisChristineDrogowski. To be followedby Sean Hurlbut.
MS. CHRISTINE DROGOWSKI [testifying on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Great pronunciation.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you.
MS. DROGOWSKI: Aloha, Councilmembers and Chair. My name isChristineDrogowski,
and I'vecalledMaui home foralmost nine years. I'mthe owner ofGo Camp Maui LLC,
a camper vehiclebusiness thathas been operatingforfouryears now. I'mhere today
to give testimony both as an individualbusiness owner and as a participantina newly
organized group of camper vehicleoperators on Maui regardingBill159.
I know thisbusiness model is relativelynew to Maui. And as of allnew businesses,
there'sa learningcurve,research,adjustments and askingforadvice.You do allthe
thingsto ensure you're on the righttrack,and of course,you'realways tryingto better
yourselfand your business. Ifeelthatthe camper vehicleoperatorshere today are
on-trackwith allthe legalrequirements to be law-abidingbusinesses. I read some
comments of some people who may not understand how we operate our businesses
and I'dliketo address these comments and better educate you and them.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 26
Number one, we do contributeto the economy directly.We pay allof our required
taxes, and our guests spends theirmoney here.
Two, litter,it'sseen everywhere. Many people litter,and many people don't. The
majorityof people who enjoy nature are the ones most concerned about litter.Litteris
seen on allparts of the island,but Idon'tbelievethe problem willbe solved by blaming
a particulargroup of people. We are allresponsible forlitter.Ifwe don't liketo see it,
then we should pick itup.
We contribute to overtourism. We all contribute to the hotels,cruise ships, rentalcar
agencies, destinationwedding businesses and many more. The contributioneach has,
isgreatlydifferent.My totalnumber of guests forSeptember was 15.
We do not allow our guests to camp anywhere or encourage it.My guests are provided
likeeveryone else has said,a listof campgrounds and informed that reservationsare
required at campsites foreach nightof the tripand to book in advance. Our guests
use the roadside as the restrooms since they do not have these facilitiesin their
vehicles. I imagine our guests are similarto you or Iwhen preparing to head out for
the day, using the facilitiesat theircampground when needed, and then locatingpublic
facilitiesto use ifneeded whilethey'reout,justas you or Iwould do ifwe were heading
to Hana forthe day without a restroom inour vehicle.
I get to meet and greet allof my guests and educate and encourage them to travel
responsibly. Iwork hard to ensure that my business isin accordance with the laws in
place, and therefore.I'm a law-abiding small localbusiness owner. I believe the best
strategy always, isalways to work together,ratherthan inopposition. So much more
can be accomplished this way with an amenable outcome for all. The healthiest
economy isa balanced one, which should be encouraging, nurturing,and supporting
localsmall businesses. Thank you. Any questions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Question, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for your testimony. Was it
Christine,I'msorry?
MS. DROGOWSKI: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 27
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Ijusthave a clarifyingquestion foryou in regards to your
newly formed group on camper vans. Did you guys come up with a name yet? Isthere
a name forthe group?
MS. DROGOWSKI: I don't think we have come up with a name. 1 mean, we might, not
officially.1mean, we could. And ifwe did,we'd inform you of that name.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Okay. Ijust,ifyou can send me an email about information
when you meet or anything, I'dlove tojoinand listenin. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions?
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Christine,foryour very moving
testimony. So as. how many, how many members do you have inyour group and in
your organizationthatyou justformed. And what isthe totalnumber of employees
collectivelyfrom the whole group initsentirety?
MS. DROGOWSKI; Iwould say thatthere'seight businesses togetherintotal,and roughly
40 employees.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. One person at a time,please. One person at a time.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more questions?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Chair, I couldn't understand because there were too many
people talking.So, the answer to my second question,Iwasn'tclearabout the number
of employees intotalityfrom these eightcompanies.
So, approximately 50 employees all together amongst the eightMS. DROGOWSKI;
companies.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; And do you know how many family members from these
50 employees?
MS. DROGOWSKI; Ido not,but Ican certainlyfindyou that information.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 28
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. Ifyou could do that,send itto my office. I would
appreciate that. Thank you so very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any more questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Chair? Chair, Chair, Chair? So, I'm in the chambers,
cause Idon't have connection in the office. So, I'm Yuki Lei Sugimura, in case. So, I
just want to know to that lasttestifier,how many vehicles you allown for the eight
companies?
CHAIR LEE: Do you have the answer to the question? The previous testifier?How many
vehicles?
MS. DROGOWSKI: Oh, one moment, we're justtallyingthe amount. You're asking for my
amount or the totalvehicles amongst the eight businesses that are here? I’m going to
findthatout foryou. One second, please.
CHAIR LEE: An approximate amount would be fine.
MS. DROGOWSKI: We have a rough estimate of 65 vehiclesintotal.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Any more questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Sean Hurlbut. To be followed by Genesis Young.
MR. SEAN HURLBUT ftestifyinQ on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning, Maui County Councilmembers. My name isSean Hurlbut and I'm the
owner of Epic Maui Rentals LLC. Thank you for the opportunity to provide my
statement today. I'm here to give testimony both as an individualbusiness owner and
as a participantina newly organized group of camper vehicleoperators on Maui. While
our views likeour businesses may differ,we're united in our view that our business
provides a unique and special way to visitMaui. We wish to work collaborativelywith
the County and Council to ensure we're able to continue to do so.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 29
1 share the concerns of the Councilmembers when itcomes to overtourism and its
effect on the islands. However, as a local business owner, I believe I’m part of the
solutionand not the problem. IfBill159 were to take effect,everythingI'veworked so
hard to buildwould be taken away from me. I'vebeen the owner and operatorofthis
localbusiness forfiveyears. Itismy full-timejob.
This business was born from a love of the outdoors and from witnessing the wasteful
behavior of some visitors. The single-use mentality of campers buying styrofoam
coolers,chairs,and snorkelgear thatget dumped before theyflyout, Iwanted tooffer
these visitorsa sustainable camping option thatletsthem experience the beauty ofthe
island with minimal environmental impact. Iwas focused on solvingthe problem then,
as I am now.
I run my business in a responsibleway. I lease commercial property. I have
commercial insurance. I employ services from localbusinesses. Every guest that
rentsfrom us isgiven informationinassistanceon where to camp, how to book that,
and what itmeans to camp legally.Every guest is reminded about driving,parking
responsibly. Every guest is given reef-safesunscreen, plant-basedbug repellant,
biodegradablegear. Sorry,one second, and reusablewaterbottles.I'mtheretoimpart
our shared values and appreciationofthisisland.
Of the 10,000 touriststhat arriveon Maui on any given day, a maximum of 20 people
would book with me. Between the significantcamper rentalcompanies that are
represented here today, we're talkingabout less than 200 people at a maximum
capacity.Thiswon'tmake a dent inthe rootissuethatthebillaimstoaddress.Itwon't
remove illegallyparked cars on the side of the road. Itwon't remove illegal
encampments on the beach. Itwon't protectthe land or lessenovertourism.
There are currently741 registeredhomeless people on thisisland,and atleast15,000
people stayingat resortsand hotelson any given day. Allthisbillwould do isshut
down our businesses and send our 200 guests to large commercial car rental
companies withno guidance or information,and then probablytoWalmartto buy cheap
tentsand disposablecamping gear. 1ask you to reconsiderthe billbecause Ibelieve
in my heartthatshuttingus down isnot the solution.I'mconfidentthatwe can finda
solutionthatworks foreveryone. I'mgratefulfortheopportunitytosharemy testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? Ifnot,thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisDr. Genesis Young. To be followedby Loren Seehase.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 30
DR. GENESIS YOUNG Ftestifyingon Committee Report Nos. 22-111 and 22-112: and Bill
Nos. 159, FD1 (2022) and 177 (2022)1;
Thank you. This isGenesis Young. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
DR. YOUNG; Yes, thank you. So, testifyingon a few thingshere. The tourism cap Bill
No. 159. You know, we've been working on thissince,well,fora longtime. It'sabout
the moratorium and tryingto have sustainable...tourism.
CHAIR LEE: Dr. Young, you're breaking up.
DR YOUNG: Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Could you turnoffyour video,please?
DR. YOUNG: My video,yeah. Okay. Hopefully,that'sa littlebetter.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, itis.
DR. YOUNG: Okay, great.Thank you. Wanting to have sustainabletourism.So, I'mtalking
to you from the ClimateActionAdvisory Committee SustainableTourism Committee.
You know, thishas been something we've been supporting. But Ireallyam concerned
about this billbecause the amendment that allows hotels to build above the sea level
zone isnot acceptablebecause then we reallywouldn'tbe havinga cap on thetourism
that we need. And that should be at least the SMA, above the SMA zone, or and I
thinkitalso . . . any withoutclosinganother room. So, itshouldbe one forone. If
they'regoing tobuildanother room, they need to have a one forone removalofanother
room at another, intheirhoteldown by the shore. So, and which willaccommodate
the sea level rise issue.
And then, hearing from over ten people now about the,the camper vans,Ithinkthat
there needs to be an amendment thatthe camper vans thatare currentlylegitimately
operatingshould be grandfatheredin.And they should allbe requiredtohave a GPS
locator,likethe one person talked to so they can make sure they'reonlyparkingin
campsites. Because my understanding isthatwhat we're tryingtodo isshutdown the
. . . hotels and other accommodations and are worried that the camper vans would
then become a major problem. So, yeah, and particularlynot... incampsites.So, I
thinkan amendment there isimportant. And Idon'twant allthese small businesses to
go out of business and to lose theirlivelihood.I'vebeen very impressed by their
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 31
testimony. And I hope the Council can hear that. Okay, that'sallfor the caps bill.
Please make appropriateamendments on that.
Also, from Committee Report 22-111 on my Resolution 22-232, that Barry Solomon
already testifiedon. He's part of our committee on sustainable tourism and we want
to see that the Globa! Sustainable Tourism Council, GSTC certificationbrought into
effect,so thatwe have qualityover quantitytourism,likethe resolutionthatwe passed,
Ithinkit'sseveralyears ago now. And we've been working on thisa long time as well.
So, please support this. It'sreally,Ithink it'san important step in,in helping us with
our sustainabletourism gettingqualityover quantity.
And then going to the Energy Code, 22-112. We've also working on thisthrough the
CAAC, through the builtenvironment committee, and tryingto get the energy code
that'scoming in,whether we likeitor not,that the State already passed. We want to
see that we have added some green ideas to thisenergy code that we have made
houses solar-ready when they are built,as well as some of the other things thatare in
that. Ithasn'tgone farenough. We should probably be requiringsolarpanels on roofs
of allnew constructionto some degree. But and we certainlyneed to pass that.
And then,the lastthingIwant to mention isBill177, thatallowsfundingforSouth Maui.
I'vebeen working through our Teran James Young Foundation on thisprojectwith
Kelly King and others, and the localresidents to tryto have a transitionalhouseless
space and regenerate and protectthe wetlands as the majorityofthatland iswetland.
And so, Iwould ask you to please pass thatfunding in Bill177. And the other aspects
of that bill,Ialso am in support of. So, that'sitforme. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Dr.Young. Questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Loren Seehase. To be followed by Rob Weltman.
MS. LOREN SEEHASE [testifyingon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Good morning. Chairman and Councilmembers. My name isLoren Seehase and I'm
an attorneyhere today representingZazu Campers LLC and an allianceofcompanies
lawfullyrentingrecreationalvehicles.
I'm testifyingin oppositionof Bill159, specificallyfor Section 19.36B.120, proposed
Subsection G. This additionalclause in the temporary parking section of the zoning
code is ambiguous, contradictoryto other provisions of the Maui County Code and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 32
prevents, presents several legalissues. Itappears to be a ban on allcamper vans,
recreational vehicles, and the like. Ifthe Council's intentionisto completely ban all
such vehicles,then thisprovision isunlawful.
County's authorityto enact zoning ordinances isboth derived from and limitedby HRS
Chapter 46, the Zoning Enabling Act. HRS 46-4A provides a scope ofzoning authority
granted to the County. Nowhere on thislististhe authorityto completely ban a specific
type of vehicle. Also, the County does not have the authorityto prohibita type of
vehicle on State parks, State roads, or Federal parks. And rental vehicles are
regulated by the State under HRS 437G. So, ifitwere to pass as written,then
Subsection G likelyexceeds the Council's authority.HRS 46-1.5 mandates thatifan
ordinance is preempted by State law itcedes itsauthorityor conflicts,then the
ordinance is deemed unlawful and invalid.
Additionally,ifthis Subsection G is meant to be a complete ban of these types of
vehicles, then it raises additional constitutional issues, such as equal protection,
contractsclause, and vested rights.Itisunclear why Subsection G isproposed, There
are other safeguards withinState law and Maui County Code to ensure these types of
vehicles are lawfullyused. State law provides a mechanism to reserve a designated
campground where these types of vehiclesmay be lawfullyused as a camping ...
There are parking restrictionswithinthe Maui County Code. Subsection G creates ...
in conjunction with the rest of the Maui County Code. Recreational vehicles are
permitted in open districtsand are included in the definitionof "camping units". If
Subsection G is meant to prevent property owners from using a recreationalvehicle
on theirproperty as an additionaltransientvacation unitor a work around on the
proposed cap on additionaltransientvacant units,then this provisionshould be
rewrittento clarifythat limitedpurpose. Therefore, we request thatSubsection G be
strickenfrom Bill159, or at the very least revised to clarifya limitedpurpose. I'dbe
happy to work with .. .
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Seehase. She's my law
school classmate. Nice to see you. Did you trycontactingmy office?
MS. SEEHASE: No. We were justretainedjustthisweek.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 33
MS. SEEHASE: So. we haven't had a chance to reach out to you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Questions?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, Ijustwas, thank you foryour testimony,Ms. Seehase. I
was wondering about the law about sleeping inyour vehicleinpublicplaces.
MS. SEEHASE: Well, Ithinkthere would be several provisionsthatare applicablethere. I
mean, interms of sleeping inyour vehicle,you have your parkingcodes thatprevent
vehiclesfrom being used forlong periodsoftime. So, Ithinkthe Maui County already
has authorityto prevent thattype of situation.So, iflawfulrecreationalvehiclesare
being used on campsites,that'sa differentsituation.They have camping permits.But
ifany type of vehicleisparked somewhere thatisunlawfultoparkforlongperiodsof
time,the County already has the authorityto,under the parkingcode,toenforcethat.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Good morning,Ms. Seehase. You
mentioned constitutional,potentiallyconstitutionalviolations.Can you be a littlebit
more specific,what would that? That be StateConstitution?U.S.Constitution?Can
we get a littlemore specificityinthatforme?
MS. SEEHASE: Sure. Thank you. In terms of constitutionalissues,you have firstoff,you
know, equal protection.You know, so State law alreadyregulatesrentalvehicles.And
so to,you know, kind of point out a specifictype of rentalvehicleversus allrental
vehicles seems to be treatingone group of people differentthan another group of
people. So, there'spotentialforother,you know, constitutionalclaimsthere.
You know vested rightsdeals with non-conforming uses, typicallyappliedinlanduse.
And so,when you have something thatisa pre-existinglawfuluse today,and tomorrow
itisunlawful,the constitutionalprotectionsunder both Stateand Federallaw require
thata mechanism be put in place to recognize thatpre-existinglawfuluse. Counties
usuallydo thatin the form of a non-conforming use certificateor a non-conforming
system, so that they can recognize and identifywhat was pre-existing.Although
counties aren'trequiredto create that mechanism, that'susuallythe mechanism that
they choose.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Alright.Thank you. So. you see, so you see thisas a
form of maybe say discriminationin some ways?
MS. SEEHASE; Perhaps. 1thinkitdepends on what the intentionof thatSubsection G is.
It'skind of unclear, because it’slumped in with the temporary parking. So, on one
hand on itsface, itappears to be a complete ban of alltypes of recreationalvehicles.
On the other hand, itcould be interpretedto be just limited,you know, Ithink maybe
Council's intentionwas to prevent a work-around, because the billis on capping
transient vacation units. And I'm not sure the intention,but maybe itwas meant to
prevent property owners from parking a recreationalvehicleon theirpropertyto expand
their transient vacation units.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay.
MS. SEEHASE; So, almost thiswork-around thisproposed bill.So, I'm thinkingthat'sthe
intention,but I'm not sure. So, there issome ambiguity in it,and when something is
vague and ambiguous intoitsinterpretationand a reasonable person can'tinterpret
what itmeans, then you do raiseconstitutionalissues and ordinances-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Ms. Seehase.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; I'm under time constraints with asking questions. But thank
you foryour explanation. Iappreciate it.Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Seehase. I understand
what you are saying about regulatingvehicles,but I feel likeit'swe're regulating
dwelling units,because you are using your vehicle now as a dwellingunit.And the
County isallowed to regulatedwellingunits,so that'snot ambiguous, you know? And
it'snot likecallingout,treatingdifferentvehiclesdifferently.It'svehiclesthatare being
used as a dwelling unit. And that'swhy, likeyou said, this is withinthistransient
accommodations bill.So, Ijustwas wondering.
MS. SEEHASE; So, I think that'swhere this provision is vague and ambiguous. Ifthe
Council's intentionis that itwould prevent a property owner from expanding their
transient vacation units by parking these recreational vehicles on their property
permanently, then Ithink that that provision should be clarified.But that'sthe limited
purpose of thisprovision.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 35
Otherwise, the way that itreads rightnow isthat it'sa complete ban. So, while the
County does have the zoning authorityto regulatedwellingunits,dwelling unitsis
defined with a physicalstructurethat'sattached to the land. And there'sdefinitions
that,you know, for mobile homes, and things likethat. But I think to expand that
definitionto a vehiclethatismovable isbeyond the County's authority...
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Does the vehicle then come with a TMK though? Because it's
being used fora dwelling,you'resaying?
MS. SEEHASE: Right. So, no, I'msaying thatit'snot tiedto the land. So, it'snot applicable
under land use and zoning. So, land use and zoning authority,ithas to be a structure
tied to the land. So, itdeals with land itself.
So, vehiclesare not inCounty ordinances and State law. They are not tiedto the land
unless,and you had those specificdefinitionstalkingabout types ofstructuresthatare
tied to the land that could be mobile, so like a mobile home. So, when it'stied to the
land,that'sa differentstory. But these are recreationalvehicles and campers. So, I
thinkthatthe language--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But they'renot floatinginthe air,right?
MS. SEEHASE: I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: They're not floating.They're,they are on the land,and they
need to park ina, likea State location.Likeyou said,it'sstilllegalforthem to do their
business on a State campsite.
MS. SEEHASE: Right. So . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But they'renot able to sleep intheirvehicleon a publicspace
overnight,right?
MS. SEEHASE: Right. Yeah, so you already have the Maui County Code and the parking
restrictionsthat you can enforce. Those are already in place. So, and you already
have the definitions--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Just to clarify,there isalso the enabling of an illegalactivityof
somebody that'srentinga dwelling,mobile dwelling unitto somebody else to park on
a publicspace that'sovernight. That's an authoritythatwe don'thave. So, we're not
tryingto criminalizehomelessness ifpeople don'thave any place elseto—
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 36
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Member Paltin,Ithinkwe're going beyond the clarificationpartof it.Feel
free to contact Ms. Seehase or callher back during our discussion. We do have to
move on.
Let's take one more testifierand then take a ten-minute break. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Rob Weltman. Rob Weltman. To be followed by .. .
MR. ROB WELTMAN (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-112):
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Good morning, Councilmembers. Rob Weltman here speaking today on behalfofthe
Maui Nui IwiAssociation,in support of Resolution 22-112 [sic],to adopt the Hawaii
State Energy Code with modificationsspecificto the County of Maui. I'msorry,thisis
boring compared to allthe other discussions. We're at. ..transition,includinginternal
combustion engine cars to clean electricvehicles. Fortypercentofgreenhouse gases
inHawaii come from ground transportation.And forthatreason,the Stateand County
are committed to converting allground transportationto electricvehicles.
More than 80 percent of allEV charging in the U.S, and also in Hawaii, happens at
home. And ifyou're an owner of a single-familyhome, you can mostly add home
charging easily. That's very difficultto impossible for those who livein multi-user
dwellings likeapartment buildingsand condos. Adding conduitsand power forEV
charging afterconstructioncan be expensive.
The California Air Resource Board estimated the total cost forleveltwo charger in2020
in between $2,500 and $3,000 each in a non-residentialbuilding. However, it
estimated, itsaved . . . cost $7,000 per stall.In other words itcost about $10,000 if
you don'tthinkof itdoing inadvance. So, that'sa savingforsingle-familyresidences,
but potentiallya much largersaving formulti-userdevelopment, to have the buildings
designed with the futureinmind.
Resolution 22-112 /s/cjtakes steps to reduce the cost to homeowners, renters,and
businesses thatrequiretransitionto green vehiclesby making sure new construction
has conduits in place and in most cases, also the wiring thatisneeded in order to
provideEV charging. So, please pass Resolution22-112 [sic].Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very
much. Now isa good time to take a break. It's10:37. Please returnat 10:47. Meeting
is in recess.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 37
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:37 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:54 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of November 4, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk,let'scontinue with testimony as fastas we can go.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Our next testifierisPamela Tumpap. To be followed by the caller
on 2211.
CHAIR LEE: Then we're going to take a lunch break at 12. Good morning.
MS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE [testifying on Committee Report
No. 22-112: and BillNos. 102. CD1, EDI (2022) and 159, EDI (2022)1:
Good morning.
Councilmembers. I'm here to represent the Maui Chamber of Commerce. My name
is Pamela Tumpap, President of the Chamber. I'dliketo startwith Bill102 and offer
our support forthisbill.The Chamber regularly-
Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, andAloha
CHAIR LEE: Excuse me. Excuse me, Pam.
MS. TUMPAP: Yes?
CHAIR LEE: Are you at the chamber? Are you inthe conference room?
MS. TUMPAP: No, I'm not.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, cause we can'tsee you, but we can hear you.
MS. TUMPAP: Oh, Iapologize. Iam sickas a dog and not able to be at our festivaltoday
so I'm sparing you that ugly look.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright.That's fine.
MS. TUMPAP: Yeah, my apologies. Otherwise, Iwould love to be seen and be with you. I
justwanted to again, we feelthat Bill102 levelsthe playingfield,especiallyin regards
to taxation. And this billtakes the necessary step in the directionfor taxation of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 38
transientvacation rentaluse by closinga loophole thatallowed some TVRs to receive
a homeowner's exemption. So, we wanted to support thatbill.
And then, Bill159, you know we, priorto where we're at today, you know, we always
feelthat inclusionand transparency inthe process isextremely important,and we still
do. And many of our members feltunheard in the process up to thispoint. But
tremendous work was done. And a compromise billemerged that addressed the
concerns of both the hotelindustryand the legaltransientvacation rentalindustry,and
went inthe moratorium, which we generally oppose.
Given the significantamendments to clarifyand demonstrate the Council'sintentto
allow legallyoperating TVRs in the various areas which were spelled out in the bill.
Many covered by the priorMinatoya decision,which was held up, which we appreciate.
Eliminating the challenging language that it included grandfathered legal non-
conforming, so thatthey'rejustlegalnow. We don'thave toworry about what happens
with non-conforming language, which had significant,could have had significant
impacts. And addressing building,renovations,and rebuilding,demonstrated thatthe
voices of those industries were heard, and included.
Most of our concerns were addressed, and therefore, we stand in support of thisbill.
Obviously, likeyou, we see new voices emerging today. And Iknow thatyou willtake
those voices into account. But we want to stand in support of this bill,given the
tremendous work that was done.
And then, Ijustwanted to comment on CR 22-112 on the Climate Action,Resilience,
and Environmental Committee's recommendation of first reading of Bill153. You
know, Rob Weltman and I had a chance to speak, and I deeply appreciate the
PowerPoint he shared. Ioffered to survey our members with parking lotsthatfitthe
parameters afterthisweekend's Made inMaui County Festivalto get theirinputon the
current EV charging use and reactionto the proposal. However, when we spoke, i
didn'trealizeuntiljustthismorning thatthere isactuallya December 15 deadline that
you're up against.
While we support the intent,we want to look at the data. We want to understand the
EV charger use demographics now. Who's using it? For how long? He shared some
great data about new chargers versus old chargers. But often when we go to the
County building,we see the,those chargers not used and people unable to park inthe
frontwhen, you know, the parking lotisfull.So, we're tryingto get a sense ofthatand
how that translates into retail locations.
Further,Rob pointed out some pointswhere on a nationallevelthey talkedabout some
retailsupport and how these EV chargers may keep people longer at malls and things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 39
But we'd reallyliketo get retail'sinput on those thoughts. And also, what role
government can play inassistinginpaying forthese chargers, so we're not justtaking
something thatbenefitsus alland passing iton to the industry.
So, those are our thoughts. We willsurvey retailafterthe Made inMaui County Festival
thisweekend. Happy to do itthe followingweek. But feelthat,you know, or maybe
some amendments could be made as been the billnow so that it'snot justsimply a
pass through onto the industry. But we want thatto be considered.
CHAIR LEE; Alright.Thank you. Questions?
Member Paltin
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Tumpap. I'm stoked you
were able to connect with Mr. Weltman. Ihad a question. When you were saying the
EV stallsare at the fronttaking up parking that people can'tuse, do you know how
come those have to be at the front? Isthat a requirement, or could itbe at the back?
Or, Ijust,Ididn'tunderstand.
MS. TUMPAP; On that.I'mjusttalkingabout the locationinfrontofthe County of Maui
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh.
MS. TUMPAP; To be honest with you, Idon't know the parking requirement. But Ioftensee
those stallsnot being used. Now, Rob said sometimes those stallsaren'tused
because those are olderchargers and maybe they are takinglonger. But Iknow many
people comment
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Cause-
MS. TUMPAP; Yeah, but they'resittingidleand nobody can park there.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Isee them atthe frontat plentyplaces.
(Councilmember King arrivedto the meeting at 11 ;00 a.m.)
MS. TUMPAP; Yeah, and you do see them at retaillocations,too. And so, Iwould agree
with you. Isee them at other locations. Idon’t know what the,what the requirement
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 40
is. And that may be, that'sa good equity question, right? Do they ailhave to get
preferentialtreatment,because you'rean EV charger?
Ialsotalkedto him about demographics, who isusing EV cars. Iknow thatthisisalso
meant to provide parityforjustallincome levelsand then down the road we won't be
manufacturing carsthe way we are today. But rightnow, oftena lotofthe people using
EV cars are,you know, a lotof Tesla'sand people of wealth.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you. Pam. Ithinkyou clarifiedher question. Thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: My apologies and happy to do so.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Let the record show thatCouncilmember Kelly King has joined us.
Good morning, Kelly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Good morning. How are you doing? I am in a lounge at. in
Vancouver, at the airportlounge. And Ihave a question forPamela Tumpap.
CHAIR LEE; Pam, are you stillthere?
MS. TUMPAP; Iam, yes. Aloha, Kelly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Aloha, Pam. So, Ijustwant to make sure you realizethat the
mandate forthose EV charger stallsare,that'sa State HRS? That was mandated by
the State years ago for every parking lotinthe State that has over a hundred parking
stallshas to have EV charger. So, that'snot reallywhat's includedinthislECC update.
And we actually--
MS. TUMPAP; So, my, you're adding to them then, correct? Right? You're upping the
requirement from the current State mandate as well.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, we actuallytook out,we actuallytook out those requirements
because we feltthey should be partof the BuildingCode, not partof the lECC. The,
the, what we did was we, we did mandate solar readiness for new commercial and
residentialconstruction. So, thatwon't affectexistingsites.
MS. TUMPAP; So, my understanding then just,and correct me ifI'm wrong, please. My
understanding is,1thinkit'smaybe the way we're approaching itor,eitherthator Idon't
understand. The requirement willgo up for totalnumber of units,and does, itisfor
new. But the number would go up from what currentlyexists.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 41
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Not, not through this bill. This billactually removed the
photovoltaicrequirement forelectricstallvehicles,remove the . .. pathway forelectric
vehicle readiness compliance. And, you know, we, we, we mostly focused on, on
energy requirements for new construction. But we also talked about the EV
requirements needing to be inthe BuildingCode ratherthan the lECC.
MS. TUMPAP: Okay, but inthe BuildingCode, are you recommending that for new units,the
... go up?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; WeTe not doing, we're not,we didn'tdo the BuildingCode. The
BuildingCode willbe done by the IT Committee.
MS. TUMPAP; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; So, thisisjustthe Energy Code.
MS. TUMPAP; Okay. So, Ithinkthatthe timing issue,Iappreciate that clarification.Then, I
thinkthatgives us time to get the industry'srecommendation before the December 15
deadline we were concerned about.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. We, we have been talkingto industry.We, we got no, you
know, no feedback. Idon't think Public Works decided to make any changes, so we
didn'thave any of that feedback. But, yeah, definitelythey’llbe, ifyou have other
people inthe industrythatwant to comment besides the folkswe were talkingto,we're
happy to hear from them.
MS. TUMPAP; Okay, how would 1--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we ran out of time. We ran out of time on thisone. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, thank you. Chair. Thanks. Pam.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions forthe testifierbefore she leaves? Thank you, Pam.
May we have the next testifier?
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieriscallingin on the lastfour digitsof phone number 8868.
8868.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, go to the next one.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 42
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierafterthatisNapua Hu‘eu.
MS. NAPUA HU‘EU [testifyingon BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha Councilmembers. Iam testifyingfrom East Maui, so Iwillleave my video offto
help aid in my audio clarity.I'm testifyingin support of Bill159, in my capacity as
administratoron highway regulation,specificallyforthe camper van and camper jeep
provisionprovided withinthatbill.I'mharnessing thisopportunityfortestimony to make
our organization'sstance on this issue clear to the Council and thisindustry.
Hana Highway regulationhas been intricatelymonitoring the rise of camper van,
camper jeep accommodations, and subsequently their negative effects on our
community of East Maui, which include finding uneducated visitorssleeping and
defecating in areas we consider sacred, and places that the County itselfhas
designated as no-camping zones. Many ofthese camper vehicles do not have human
waste mitigationfeatures.
Over the lastfiveyears,our organizationhas receivedextensive reportsfrom residents
across East Maui of feces and toiletpaper scattered throughout the region. Renting
camping equipment to visitorswho often have zero concept of being out, responsible
outdoors people creates high-levelimpacts on our lifestyleand culture.
Local residentstypicallyhave a handle on how to mitigatetheirhuman waste, whether
by bringing the equipment to manage waste with them, or having the place, specific
intelligence,of knowing where nearby restrooms are. And because they livehere, they
are often more concerned with the long-term effects of theiractions, compared to
visitorswho are only here for short-term and don't have the abilityto ecologically
compute how theirhuman waste directlyaffectsthe health and well-beingofour sacred
spaces.
Our organizationhas testifiedforyears regardingthe implicationsof these camper van
vehicles. As our organizationhas explained in past, our data lends to the factthat
visitorsdo not comply with pledges, codes of conducts, or requests for compliance
from the business operators rentingthem thisequipment. Although it'scommendable
that these business owners make ita pointto convey they educate theirguest, itis
theirvery guests who we findcamping and hikinginareas thatkamaaina wouldn't even
attempt.
Itiscontradictoryfor these camper van and camper jeep owners to be appropriating
the Olelo Hawaii words I've heard from them reiterate on the record today, such as
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 43
ohana and malama aina, when their business models do not actuallyjive with the
actual meanings of those words.
In my capacityoffarm manager and volunteercoordinatorof the Honomanu Ahupua‘a
Lo‘iRestoration Project,Ican attestto the factthatmany of the camper van and jeep
businesses have staged photos of theirvehicles on theirwebsites. Photos of their
vehicles at Honomanu Beach on Honomanu Beach. And we often find their customers
camping on Honomanu Beach, which isactuallyconsidered a County park and a no
camping area. Furthermore, we often find a lotof waste issues at Honomanu, and I
have shared some of these photos with Councilmembers in past.
Hana Highway regulationposes the question of how many of these camper van and
jeep operators are longstanding members of our community. How long have these
operators livedhere. The lack of camper van and jeep business owners thatare actual
long-standingmembers of our community isan indicatorof the factthatthisbusiness
model does not coincide with the morals and values of Hawaii. No long-standing
members of our community would embark on thistype of business venture forthe fact
that the people of Hawaii find this business model as intrusiveto our lifestyleand
culture.
I have seen longstanding residents open up theirpropertiesas places for camper
vehicles to park overnight, mostly as a means to help manage the issue by getting
them off the side of the road and out of our sacred sitesand County parks. But Idoubt
the value of them offeringthese accommodations istrulythere.
One more sentence to conclude. Although we are not in support of mainland owned
corporate resortcontinuingthe strong hold ofeconomic benefitover the visitorindustry,
they are currentlythe only management mechanism inplace thatprovides organization
of visitorimpact,which congregates visitorsto resortareas and responsibly manages
the human waste issues that we have the utmost concern with. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Questions forthe testifier?Ifnot,thank you very much.
Or do, we have one question. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Hu'eu foryour testimony. I
justwas wondering ifyou have kept documentation of these encounters inthe form of
license plate numbers or things of the sort?
MS. HU'EU: We do. We actuallyhave fiveyears'worth of photos and reports.And happy
to tryand summarize them for thisspecificissue, and get that offto you guys.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you so much. Iwould reallyappreciate it.
MS. HU'EU: You're welcome. We'll send that as soon as possible.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifierisAngela Leone. To be followed by Richard Biernacki.
MS. ANGELA LEONE. PROFESSIONAL RENTAL MANAGERS ASSOCIATION [testifying
on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha. Can you see and hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Ms. LEONE: Okay. Aloha, Chair Lee and Maui County Councilmembers . I'mspeaking today
in support of Bill159 on behalf of PRMA. We are the vacation rental trade council
under the Maui Chamber of Commerce. And justa quick reminder, Ishared thisinmy
lasttestimony about, a littlebitabout PRMA, who we are.
We're a coalitionof property management companies representing over 1600 legally
zoned condominium vacation rentalunitsthroughout Maui. Our members are licensed
inthe State,engaged inthe management of legalvacation rentalproperties,primarily
condos, and comply with allthe real estate license laws and code of ethics. Our
companies represent 216 years in business, employing nearly 200 employees, and
over 300 independent contractors and vendors. That’s who we are and who I'm
representing today.
So, our industryishighlyimpacted by Bill159, and we do appreciate thatour concerns
were taken intoaccount and considered in the changes and edits to the bill.We
appreciate thatwe were given the chance to share our concerns and input,and that
this billwillend the current moratorium. We requested that the County Council
consider and approve the suggestions proposed by testifiersreferencingSection 11,
regarding planned developments, as well as Section 15, regardingthe historicdistricts.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 45
And so, with those changes made, specificto as Pam Tumpap had mentioned not
changing those permitted properties and allowing them to remain legal and not
changing them to non-conforming. We appreciate you making that change. And so,
on behalf of PRMA, we do support Bill159 with these changes that have been made.
We appreciate you listeningto our voice and look forward to working with the Council
on any future projects that may arise. We do know and understand this was a
compromise on allsides and we do appreciateyou working together with our industry
to make these changes. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Richard Biernacki. To be followed by Tiare Lawrence.
Richard Biernacki?
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Tiare Lawrence.
MS. TIARE LAWRENCE [testifyingon BillNo. 159, FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Councilmembers. I'm over here, likeyesterday, from Napa Valley. But Ijust
feltlikethisissuch an important issue and 1wanted to take the time out of my vacation
to do my due diligenceand testifyon thisimportant issue. I heard an earliertestifier
ask the Council to consider grandfatheringinthe existingcamper van businesses. I
say absolutely‘a'ole,not today, not tomorrow, not ever.
Our earliertestifiertalked about how the camper van industrycreates jobs. And let's
be real,there's no shortage of jobs. We need people to filljobs that contribute to
society that live here liketeachers, police, engineers. County workers, and farm
workers. Furthermore, please take note that these owners are not from here. They
have not feltthe impacts of tourism, likethose of us who have livedhere our whole
entire life.
It'sone thingto liveinyour car when you have no other choice due to the cost of living
on Maui. But to allow touriststo shower in our parks on vacation,are you for real? I
say no. Ask yourselves, what does the camper vans do to improve the qualityof life
for localresidents? Nothing. It'sintrusive,invasive,and creates inequality.We are
here criminalizinghomelessness, but at the same time, allowing people here,
businesses to make money offour publicspaces. Isay ‘a'ole.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 46
. . . the camper van industry,how about we get controlover the abandoned car
situation?As a life-longresidentof Maui. 1have said thistime and time again, Ifeel
inundated with tourism every singleday. Being born and raised inLahaina, it'sa feeling
that unless you experience ityourselfit'shard to explain. But it'sa feelingthat makes
you feel depressed and oppressed in a way. But the onslaught of tourism in our
community, outside of the hoteldistrict,isfeltby people that... So, please support
outrightbanning the camper van industry.Mahalo nui foryour time and a mahalo to
allof you that have worked so hard on thisbill.A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you, Tiare.
Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Robin Knox. And Robin isfollowed by Mark Deakos.
MS. ROBIN KNOX [testifying on Committee Report No. 22-110; and BillNos. 68. CD1 (2022)
and 159, FD1 (202211:
Aloha. Good morning, Councilmembers. Ijustwanted to keep itreallyshort. But 1
wanted to comment on three items. On 22-110, Pulelehua, I am in support of this
projectand using County funds to help itgo. Itisan expedient projectready to go to
provide much needed housing. And itpilotsnew provisionsof affordablehousing rules
that you've allworked so hard to put in place. And so, Ido support it.
And on 68, CD1, the managed retreat.I'm in support. This isabsolutelynecessary.
Allofthe climatemodels, you know, the realityofwhat we see farexceeds the impacts
predicted by the climate models. And we have a large amount of coastlineimpacted
by sea levelrise.So, it'sprudent to do this.We're going to be inbigtroubleifwe don't.
On 159, the cap on transientaccommodations. I'm insupport with reservations. As a
residentof Kihei,I'm impacted dailyby the resortsand the trafficrelatedto it.Iwould
rathersee no expansion of hotels and timeshares, but Ido appreciate the work of the
Council on thisand everything thatwe've gained in thispiece of legislationthat will
benefitour community. So, thank you so much for allof your efforts.And that'sallI
have to say. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Mahalo. Thank you. And are there any questions forRobin? Ifnot,thank you
very much.
May we have the next testifier?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 47
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mark Deakos. And Mr. Deakos iscurrentlythe lastto
sign up fortestimony.
MR. MARK DEAKOS ftestifvina on Committee Report No. 22-111 and 22-112: and
BillNos. 68. CD1 (2022V 159. FD1 (2022). and 164 (2022)1:
Good morning, Chair Lee, Members ofthe Council. I'llturnoffmy video forstreaming.
I'llkeep itshort. For the record,I'm Mark Deakos, 25-year West Maui resident. As
your Committee here plovi/sthrough a super-packed agenda today, Ijustwanted to
remind you ail.one ofthe most important responsibilitiesof citizensofthe planetisthat
we leave the planet for our keikiin betterconditionthan we found it.Responsibility,
and Ithinkwe can allagree we're failingat miserably, even here on Maui.
So, to make some adjustments in the rightdirection,we're leaning more and more
towards the sustainabilitystuff.And as a reminder, sustainability.. .our own needs
withoutcompromising the abilityof futuregenerationsto meet theirown needs. That
means whether you'rea business or buildingan affordablehome, you need to account
for your negative impacts, whether they are intentionalor not, on ecosystems, on
carbon emissions, water, and airquality.. .food access, publichealthand well-being,
so that you're not compromising the abilityof futuregenerations to meet theirown
needs.
So, that being said, a good step in course correctingour currenttrend would be one,
support 22-111, to adopt the sustainabilitytourism practices.Irecommend including
a definitionof "sustainability"inthere ifitisn'talready there. That term isoften ...
Support 22-112, Energy Code amendments. Although they don't,they'renot nearly
enough to significantlychange our course, but small steps are betterthan no steps in
the rightdirection.
Three, support 68, the billfor managed retreatrevolvingfund, which isthe only long
term solutionto address sea levelrisewhile allowing futuregenerations to inheritthe
beaches and then offer...that lieunder these existingstructureswhich they rightfully
deserve.
Four, support the billrecognizing nature-based solutions. Embracing nature will
always . .. than fightingit.
And lastly,support 159, that'sthe visitorcap, taking a pause, since we've already . .
the Maui Island Plan ...one touristper three residents. And we're closerto a one per
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 48
two residents.Let'sjusttake a breath,put the brakes on unlimitedgrowth at any cost,
and get a betterhandle on what sustainable tourism should look liketo tryto start
closingthat ever-widening gap.
So, you have some good billsthatwillhelp us course correctand Iencourage you to
support these so that we can startthinking about leaving the planet betterthan we
found itfor our keiki. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members? No questions.
Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Thomas Croiy. And Mr. Croiy iscurrentlythe last
testifierto sign up.
MR. THOMAS CROLY (testifying on Committee Report No. 22-117):
Aloha, Council. Tom Croiy testifyingon my own behalf. Iwant to make comment on
something some, no one else has made comment on to this point,and that is
Committee Report 22-116 [sic],Bill151, the parking ambassadors program. As you
know, I attended the Committee meeting when this was discussed. And thiswas
presented as justenabling legislationthatwould allowthatto go forward. Ihave since
reviewed the billand the billgoes way beyond enabling legislation.And !urge you to
send this back to Committee.
The billrescinds allof the one-hour, two-hour, and three-hourparkingzones inWailuku
and in Lahaina. Now, think about what that does. That means ifyou pass thisbillright
now, you can'tticketpeople forparking forone-hour, two-hour,or three-hourinthose
areas because there is no law that restrictsparking to thatuntilthislegislationwould
then put insome type of a parking program where they would pay inthose areas. So,
that istotallypremature foryou to be rescinding those partsof the law rightnow.
But more important than that, this was presented to the public in the Park Maui
meetings as residentspark free,don'tworry, residentspark free. But inthe meeting,
a few thingswere said thatdon'tmake thatclear,thatresidentsare going to park free.
Residents, what was said in the meeting was residents get two hours of parking for
free and a thirdpotentialhour that they would pay for. And then, afterthose three
hours, the resident must move their car from that lot,or from that block. There's a lot
of things thatthey have gotten way beyond enabling legislationwith this. So, i urge
you do not pass thisbillon firstreading. Itreallywillset inmotion something thatI
don'tthinkyou're going to be able to stop afteritgets rolling.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 49
The goal, itsays, is85 percent occupancy. One of the questions that Iwould ask of
the, and I'vealready asked of the Dixon folkswho you've paid to do an analysis is
where are we exceeding that85 percent occupancy? And during what times of day
are we exceeding that85 percent occupancy? So, we could targetthisparking billand
these ambassadors to the areas that it'sreallyneeded. We reallydon't know in
Wailuku what the situationisgoing to be untilyou finishthe parking structure,and we
get that going. So, there are so many unknowns at this point. Itwould be really
premature to pass this billat this moment. . . .down this road where, you know, the
charge for parking isgoing to be everywhere. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Tom. Questions, Members? Okay, thank you very much.
Appreciate the information.
MR. CROLY: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Faith Chase. And Faithisthe lastone on our testimony
listat this moment. Faith?
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are no other testifierscurrentlysigned up to testify.This is
lastcallfortestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. There's-
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE [testifying on Committee Report Nos. 22-110 and 22-111:
Resolution Nos. 22-245, 22-253. and 22-254: and BillNos. 68, CD1 (2022). 159, FD1
(2022): and 177 (2022)1:
Iwould liketo testify.This isLucienne de Naie.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 50
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can we ask staff to mute the Mayor's Lounge, the
testifier,cause it'smaking itreallyhard to hear testifiers.Because there's a lotof
background sound.
CHAIR LEE: Staff,Kathy, can you have the staffmute the Mayor's Lounge?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes. I've taken care of that.
CHAIR LEE: Then can you callup Ms. de Naie.
MS. DE NAIE: Mahalo. As I understand it,we're able to testifyon various items allat one
time today?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yeah.
MS. DE NAIE: Alright.Well, Ijustthank you for stillbeing here. Iwould liketo testifyin
support of 22-110, the Pulelehua funding. And also, in support of the Resolution
22-232, to adopt standards urging thatthere be adoption of standards for sustainable
tourism.
Iwould also liketo testifyinsupport on 22-245, forLu'ukiaNakanelua to be appointed
to the Board of Water Supply. She ishighlyqualifiedand Ithinkher qualificationswere
discussed at the lastmeeting.
And also, in support of the rezoning request, 22-253 for the Maui Ocean Center, so
that they can set up theirturtlerecovery program and have the proper zoning there
and go through the proper process.
And for22-254, which isthe purchase of the lotinKiheithathas had allthese flooding
problems and can be hopefully part of a greater effortto restore wetlands and flood
capacity inthatarea.
And then, on bills,I would liketo testifyin support of Bill177. All of the budget
appropriations that were amended in this billare worthwhile. And iffolks need any
information about the part of the appropriationfor the extra $7,000 for the Maalaea
storybook. I'm happy to provide any information.I'mavailabletoday forthat.
And the lastthing,the Bill159. We'd liketo support this Council coming up with
something that actuallygives us a chance to have a pause on the growth of tourism
here and allow those ... we have facilitiesto certainlyfullyemploy those facilities.But
not justlook at the past and say, well,tourism keeps growing and that'sjustthe way of
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 51
it,and that'sjustwhat our economy is. We reallydo need to not have such a one-
horse economy. So, we need to take steps to allow other areas to flourish,and not to
allow thispartof the economy to justoverwhelm the infrastructureand the goodwill of
our people.
So. you've heard allthe arguments pro and con. But please, please, please, make a
meaningful decision. It'svery hard forthe publicto know what's in and out of the bill
rightnow. But Iknow thatmany of you are trackingitdeciduously. So, please, please
make a decision that ismeaningful and not justwindow dressing. Thank you. That's
my testimony.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. de Naie.
Madam Clerk? Madam Clerk? Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,...testimony at thistime. This isthe lastcallfortestimony.
MS. FAITH CHASE Ftestifyino on BillNo. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Chair? Madam? Hello?
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Who are you?
MS. CHASE: This is Faith Chase.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, hi Faith.You want to testify?Go rightahead.
MS. CHASE: Okay. Thank you. Ihave the unfortunatehistoricalperspectiveto say thatthis
one issue with the camper vans and jeeps is specificto the committee, the
Infrastructureand Transportation Committee. Iwas at the very firstmetropolitan,Maui
metropolitantransportation,what's the acronym, the MPO gathering meeting at the
inceptionpoint,where there'sbig maps on the table,and littleflags,and post-its,and
ping-pong beer cups that you give your ideas, that whole sort of gathering of
information.And my Councilmember Yuki Sugimura and the Chair ofthe Infrastructure
and Transportation Council Chair was there. And so, this,this issue is not without
consistent testimony of importance.
You have your entireHana community rightnow, justto fast-forward,because Ithink
you guys are allin the loop of understanding the communication timeline. You're at
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 52
the crossroads finally,maybe, where your entire Hana community, and all the
nonprofits,and allthe organizations,and many kupuna, and allthe stewards, both
countries. You know, you have a sovereignty perspective,and you have a United
States of Hawaii perspective,allthese people feelthe same way. And they'retelling
Hawaii Tourism Authorityand they are tellingMaui VisitorsBureau, 'a'ole,no, slow
your roll,literallypun intended. That'swhere you'reat.
So, my message to these business owners, who obviously did not do riskanalysis
before they got started,cause ifthey did, itwouldn't have take very hard to search
Hana Highway and the situationgoing on. That's the millennialgeneration, or the
Generation Y that'susing hashtags, reallyeasy to search the situation.Plus, likethree
Hana Highway alertpages.
1would say thisto those business owners, familieswho have expressed that they're
concerned about theirfamiliesand theirwell-being,bankruptcy, children,allthese
things,you should allget togetherand coordinatewith your County, because we have
just passed a safe sleeping space parking lot.You might be the bridge to be some
transienthousing, because your business is not going to continue well on the Hana
Highway, or along Maui. 1 can only speak for my East Maui and the backside. You
need to be reallycreativerightnow.
And I implore, 1 employ the Committee of Infrastructureand Transportation, Chair
Sugimura, you personally did not do your due diligence in reaching out to this
community, thissector.You are responsiblefortheiroccupation transition.Icould not
be more serious. I am exhausted. I need water. I've been testifyingso long on this
subject.
Thank you forthe time. Chair. I'm sorry to leave on such a heated note but this,my
family has contributedso much personal time to thisissue it'snot funny anymore.
You're talkingabout taking money out of my pocketbook. You're talking about
destroying my environment, sacred places. Itisso nasty and I,Ifeelso sorry you.
Thank you asking forthe data Councilmember Paltin,that'svery thorough. But Ifeel
so sorry forthe email thatyou're going to get of allthe lepo picturesof the kaka and
the Hana lepo on the side ofthe road. So, maybe squintyour eyes when you read that
email. It'sbad. And these business owners are not going on a tour with each one of
the people that they rent the van to. They don't know what they up to. Okay, sorry.
Thank you. Aloha Friday. I’m done. Thank you forthe time.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair,you'remuted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 53
CHAIR LEE: Thank you very much. Any questions,Members?
Ifnot,may we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we have no other testifierssigned up.
MR. MICHAEL SCHAEFER (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-117):
May Ibe permitted? May Ibe permitted to testify,please?
CHAIR LEE: What isyour name?
MR. SCHAEFER: My name isMichael Schaefer, and I'm,I'dliketo give testimony relatedto
Bill151, CD1, Number 22-117 on your agenda.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, did you sign up to testify?
MR. SCHAEFER: I didn't know how to do that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But-
MR. SCHAEFER: I'vebeen signed inforthe whole meeting.
CHAIR LEE: Why don'tyou give your testimony and then-
MR. SCHAEFER: Okay, I'llbe quick.
CHAIR LEE: --provideyour informationto our staffafterwards.
MR. SCHAEFER: Okay. IthinkI'mspeaking fora lotof Maui non-residentpropertyowners
when Isay thatwe thinkthatthisbilloverlooked our interestsinthisfirstreading. About
ten years ago, 1 purchased a small condo in Kihei, in an environmentally green
purposely builtcommunity. I livethere fiveor six months out of the year. I pay not
unsubstantialpropertytaxes,since the propertycan'tbe leased and Idon'tqualifyfor
the owner exemption thatotherwise would apply to property owners. So, thisbillwould
not includeus and people in my situationinthe exemption from the parking fees that
are being proposed. And I'dliketo have our interestsincludedinwhatever finalbillis
promulgated. And that'smy testimony. I'msorry,you're muted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 54
CHAIR LEE; Sorry,I'vebeen coughing allmorning. Can you repeat your name again,
please?
MR. SCHAEFER: It'sMichael Schaefer, S-C-H-A-E-F-E-R.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions forMr. Schaefer? Ifnot,thank you very
much.
May we have the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: There are currentlyno individualssigned up to testify.Ifanybody is
wanting to testify,please make yourself known at thismoment, at thistime. Last call
fortestimony. Chair,no one has indicated...testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, let'sproceed with the agenda.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we, proceeding with item G, Minutes. And close testimony for
item G. Proceeding with the minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of May 26, 2022, and
June 8, 2022, was presented at thistime.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES THAT WERE READ BY
THE CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
approve the minutes read by the Clerk.
Any discussion? Ifnot, allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 55
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN. SINENCI, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura, are you there? Ifnot,eight "ayes", one "excused": motion
carries.
Madam Clerk,proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the item H, action on the Consent Calendar, county
communication. This is a callfor testimony for item H of the agenda, action on the
Consent Calendar. Please make yourselfknown now.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members to closingpublictestimony and accepting written
testimony forthe Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
1. Frank and Kristen Lopez;
Dina Cline;
Tiare Lawrence;
Lucienne de Naie;
Michael Schaefer;
Francine Aarona;
Destyn Ah Yee-Dudoit;
Serena Alexander;
Keli'iArruda;
KarriAyasanonda;
Camille Barcoma;
Kaipo Bee;
Angela Berkey;
Billand Bobbie Best;
Lynn Britton,Maalaea VillageAssociation;
John Brown;
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 56
17. Kyle Caires, Maui County Farm Bureau;
Healoha Carmichael;
Kahokumalama Carmichael;
Aaron Caulford;
Nalani Caulford;
Mackenzie Chase;
Donald Dudoit III;
Linda Duncan;
CaitlinDuquette;
Norman M. Estin;
Amy Fonarow;
Steven Forman;
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Alliance;
JeffGilbreath,Hawaii Community Lending;
Taryn Givenchy and Stefano Maffini;
Margaret Hansen;
Cheryl Hendrickson;
MitchellA. Imanaka, American Resort Development Association;
Debi Javar;
Jo Anne Johnson Winer;
Michelle Jones;
Ivalee Kamalu;
Kanekapolei Kana;
Kawika and Mikiala Grace;
John Kevan and Angela Leone;
Kawailani Kimokeo;
Kimberly Kowalski;
Claire Laurentine;
Raenel Leauanae;
Tammy Luat-Hueu;
Nate Lundquist;
Maka B;
Malia King;
Edwin Manini;
Heather McClain;
Ashlie McGuire;
Tom Mellin;
Mikiala King;
Dustyn Min;
Robin Min;
Rose Min;
Ryan K Y Min;
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 57
59. Junya Nakoa;
Nipuu Ng:
Raphiell Nolin;
Donald O'Connor;
Curen Ohama;
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros;
Kaimipono Ordonez;
Paula Phillips;
Nicholas Potash;
S. KT'ope Raymond;
Josh Riccio;
Jennifer Rule;
Naupaka Sako;
Lisa Schattenburg-Raymond;
Jonathan Likeke Scheuer;
Elyce Schnitzer;
Hanalei Schnitzer Jr.;
Kirby L. Shaw, Disabilityand Communication Access Board;
Gayle Shufeldt;
Nicole Smith;
stkanehailua@gmail.com;
Hau'oli Thielk;
Micah Tucker;
Susan Vickery; and
Diana Whitt.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-267 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated October 27, 2022)
Transmittinga listof approved unbudgeted equipment requests forFiscalYear 2023
from July 1,2022, to September 30, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 58
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-267 14//AS LATER
REFERRED TO THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. See page 63 fordiscussionand
action.)
NO. 22-268 - MICHELE M. YOSHIMURA. BUDGET DIRECTOR
(dated October 27, 2022)
Transmitting the Budget Implementation Report as of September 30, 2022 (FiscalYear
2023 FirstQuarter).
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-268 14//\S LATER
REFERRED TO THE BUDGET, FINANCE, AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. See page 63 fordiscussionand
action.)
NO. 22-269 - ANDREW H. MARTIN. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
(dated October 17, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of grant award with the State of Hawaii. Department of
Transportation for the Maui County Prosecutor's Office TrafficRecords grant in the
amount of $8,739.
NO. 22-270 - ERIC A. NAKAGAWA. DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated October 26, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract ModificationOrder No. 2 from the State of Hawaii
Department of Health inthe amount of $170,590 forGlass Recycling Programs.
NO. 22-271 - ERICA. NAKAGAWA, DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT, (dated October 26, 2022)
Transmitting a copy of Contract ModificationOrder No. 4 from the State of Hawaii
Department of Health inthe amount of $99,000 for ElectronicWaste Collection.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4. 2022
Page 59
- JOHN PELLETIER. CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated October 26, 2022)
NO. 22-272
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportationforthe MPD TrafficData grant inthe amount of $261,918.
- JOHN PELLETIER. CHIEF OF POLICE,
(dated October 21, 2022)
NO. 22-273
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportation for the MPD Child Restraint and Seatbelt grant in the amount of
$154,839.37.
- JOHN PELLETIER. CHIEF OF POLICE,
(dated October 21,2022)
NO. 22-274
Transmitting a copy of the grant agreement with the State of Hawaii, Department of
Transportationforthe MPD Roadblock grant inthe amount of $485,976.16.
- JORDAN MOLINA. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKSNO. 22-275
(dated October 24, 2022)
Transmittinga copy ofthe FFY 2022-2025 Maui TransportationImprovement Program
Revision #4 Administrative Modification, which includes the Kamehameha Avenue and
Wakea Avenue IntersectionImprovements Project.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-275 l/VAS LATER
REFERRED TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE. See page 63 fordiscussion
and action.)
- MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated October 24, 2022)
NO. 22-276
Informingof a vacancy on the LiquorControlAdjudicationBoard due tothe resignation
of Harold Cathcart, effectiveOctober 20, 2022.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 60
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-276 14//\SREMOVED
FROM THE CONSENT CALENDAR AND LATER FILED. See
page 64 fordiscussionand action.)
- HELENE KAU. DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated October 24, 2022)
NO. 22-277
Transmittingthe State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reportsforAugust 2022 forallregisteredwell reportersinthe County of Maui.
(COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-277 WAS LATER
REFERRED TO THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE. See page 63 fordiscussion
and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawiins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: The lastthree were referredto PSLU, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Was our Clerk finished?
CHAIR LEE: The lastthree, the lastthree were referred to PSLU. So, Ibelieveshe finished
with 22-277.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Is ittoo lateto pull22-276?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'dliketo speak to that one, ifIcould pullitfrom the Consent
Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any objectionsto pullingCC 22-276, Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 61
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
Member Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No.
CHAIR LEE: Is this to refer to-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're justpullingitfrom the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. So, Madam Clerk,didyou finishreading allthe items?
COUNTY CLERK: ...Oh, the referrals.Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the other three were for referrals,so do you have any more to read?
COUNTY CLERK: No, that'sgood.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, we need actionthen,on, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and Member
Paltin.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: You can go first.Member Paltin.Whichever.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, we have to take action on the Consent Calendar
and then, and then-
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -we'll callup the items individuallyafterwe take
action on the Consent Calendar.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Icalledon you twicethat'swhy and you didn'treact. So, Ithought okay
let'sgo onto somebody else.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 62
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. My apologies.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR,
EXCEPT 22-267, NEVER MIND SCRATCH THAT CAUSE THAT
WAS PULLED NOW.
CHAIR LEE; 276?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well,they'renot on the Consent Calendar anymore.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, that'syour motion again?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yup.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, on that motion.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No discussion. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: No discussion. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We're not supposed to discuss. We're not supposed
to discuss.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, yeah that'sright.
Member Sugimura, you have no discussion? Member Sugimura, you keep, we keep
losingyou.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair? Sorry. Iguess therewere two items thatwere
referred to IT. No, but those were the ones-
CHAIR LEE: Isthatwhy you're raisingyour hand, Member Sugimura?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 63
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I want to know if22-275 could be referredto IT? Sorry
about that. And then, what did Tamara ask for?
CHAIR LEE: 276. 275.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. Tamara, did you ask for275?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 276.
CHAIR LEE: 276. You asked for 275.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. 275.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto pullingthatone out?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay now, we're going to vote now to set the Consent Calendar. There’s that
motion stillon the floor.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The motion would include referralof
22-267 and 22-268 to the BFED Committee. And 22-277 to IT Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, inadditionto the 275.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sure.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Allthose infavor,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Okay, let'sgo to Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 64
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-276
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ITEM 22-276.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Sugimura, to fileitem 22-276.
Discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Ijust,Ijust\A^antedto recognize Harold
Cathcartfor hisserviceon the Liquor ControlAdjudicationBoard, congratulate him on
his recent wedding and wish him the best of health in his ongoing healthjourney. And
put the message out there,ifanyone from the west side would liketo apply to replace
him forthe Liquor ControlAdjudicationBoard, please contact my office.Thank you so
much.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anything, anymore on thisitem? Okay, allthose infavor of filingthis
please raiseyour hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
We're done with thisright? Madam, oh. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Did we move to refer 22-278, 22-7, and 22-8 to the PSLU
Committee?
CHAIR LEE: I think we did that earlier.
Regular MeetingoftheCouncilofthe County ofMaui
November 4, 2022
Page 65
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Itjusthappens automatically.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No, no. Iasked iftherewere any objectionsto referringthose three items when
you asked.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, moving onto communications. Testimony. Testimony for
communications.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,we have nobody signed up totestifyon communications.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,any objectionsto closing testimony on communications
Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
Madam Clerk,please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Would you entertaina shortrecess, please?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's,how much time do you need? Five minutes or less?
COUNTY CLERK: Five minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Five minutes. Let's make it.You know, it'salmost 12, do you reallyneed a
recess? You do? Okay, then, okay, we may as well take our lunch break, alright?
Members, we'll return at 1:30. A bunch of us have to go up to lao Valley for a
ceremony. So, we'llreconvene at 1:30, alright? Meeting in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 11:48 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 1:33 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of November 5 [sic],Friday,2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let'sresume where we were.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,resuming Section I,Communications and proceeding with county
communications.
Regular Meeting oftheCouncilofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 66
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-278 - MICHELE MCLEAN, PLANNING DIRECTOR
(dated October 17, 2022)
Transmittingthe Department of Planning'squarterlyreport on the status of ailactive
conditionalpermits as of September 30. 2022.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-278 be referred to the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
GENERAL COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-7 HOWARD KIHUNE JR.. PRESIDENT. AINA LANI PACIFIC. LLC,
HOKU'ULA PARTNERS LLC.. (dated October 14, 2022)
Submitting an annual status report in accordance with Condition 17 of Ordinance
No. 3312, change inzoning from InterimDistrictto R-1 ResidentialDistrictand PK-1
Neighborhood Park District,Conditional zoning for property situated at Hali'imaile,
Maui, Hawaii.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 22-7 be referredto the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
NO. FRANCISCO GUTIERREZ. SENIOR VICE-PRESIDENT.
DEVELOPMENT. A & B PROPERTIES HAWAII. LLC. SERIES T,
22-8
(dated October 22, 2022)
Submitting the 2022 Annual Report inaccordance with Condition No. 3 of Ordinance
No. 4146, KiheiResidentialProjectchange inzoning.
The recommended action is that General Communication No. 22-8 be referredto the Planning
and Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Members, any objectionsto referringthese items as indicated?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 67
CHAIR LEE: Alright.So, ordered.
Please proceed, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-279 - KELLY TAKAYA KING. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated October 25, 2022)
Relating to Councilmembers' report on the Hawai'i State Association of Counties
Executive Committee Meeting on October 25, 2022.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Yes, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
MOVE TO FILE THE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-279.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by, Imissed the second. Oh, Member
King, to filecommunication, County Communication 22-279.
Any discussion,Mr. Sinencior Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I'llbe providing this report in accordance with the State
Sunshine Law, specificallythe requirements of Section 92-2.5(E),of the Hawaii
Revised Statutes.
Councilmember King,Councilmember Paltin,Councilmember Kama, Councilmember
Johnson, and myself,attended an HSAC Executive Committee meeting on October 25.
2022, at various intervalsfrom 10 a.m. to 12:33 p.m. via video conference.
Regular Meetingofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 68
Councilmember King is Maui County's representativeon the HSAC Executive
Committee and Councilmember Paltin is the alternate.
The meeting was organized by the HSAC Executive Committee and facilitatedby
HSAC President Mason Chock. The Committee offered the opportunity for public
testimony and had no testifiers.
The Board discussed County reportsfrom allfourCouncils,the 2023 HSAC Legislative
Package, the HSAC Executive Committee slateof officersforJanuary 1,2023, and the
HSAC fiscal and financial matters.
And Chair,the meeting was not specificallyor exclusivelyorganized for any, directed
toward Maui County Councilmembers. And no commitment relatingto a Maui Council
vote was made. So, with that.Chair, that concludes my report.Iwould welcome further
comments from my other colleagues should they want to add anything. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. You know, we were, in accordance with the
Sunshine Law, we weren't supposed to have a quorum. And withinthe firsthour, you
know, itwas allvirtual,and within the firsthour, I noticed that there were five Members
on, on the call. And Member Kama graciouslyextracted herselffrom the meeting,
thank you, Member Kama, so that there wouldn't be a quorum, so we would be
followingthe Sunshine Law. Ijustwanted to make thatdisclosure.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Anyone else? Comments? Alright,allthose infavorof the motion
to file,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now, one, two, three,four,five,six,seven, eight,nine "ayes'
motion carries.
zero "noes":
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 69
COUNTY CLERK; Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
NO. 22-280 - ALICE L. LEE, COUNCIL CHAIR
(dated October 28, 2022)
Transmitting a proposed amendment to Bill159, FD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE
RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS".
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. May I request, ifthere are no
objections,Iv^ould liketo ask that County Communication 22-280 be deferred until
Bill159, FD1-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -(2022) istaken up.
Mahalo, Member Sugimura.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Did somebody second her ask fora no objections?
Okay. Okay, moved-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That \was a joke, right?
CHAIR LEE: Ithought you said,ifthere are no objections.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, yeah, there's-
CHAIR LEE: And then somebody, and then somebody went likethat.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, no. Member Sugimura jumped the gun. She
was not objecting.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 70
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, no objections.So, ordered. So, thatthisCounty Communication be
deferred untilwe take up Bill159, FD1, which islater.Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk.
(See pages 152 through 164 fordiscussion and action.)
COUNPi^ CLERK: Chair,moving forward with agenda sectionitem J, Committee Reports.
It'snow the time to proceed with testimony on the committee reports. And our first
person to testifyisLisa Paulson, followed by Lahela Aiwohi.
CHAIR LEE; Ms. Paulson? Oh, okay, Isee you.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
(testifying onMS. LISA PAULSON. MAUI HOTEL AND LODGING ASSOCIATION
Committee Report No. 22-110):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name isLisa Paulson. 1am a paid
lobbyistand I'm representingthe Maui Hotel and Lodging Association,the legislative
arm in the visitorindustry. We represent over 180 propertiesand alliedbusinesses,
and more than 22,000 workers.
Today, I'm here insupport of Bill152, Committee Report 22-110 thatseeks to amend
the FiscalYear 2023 Budget, in part to support the Pulelehua Affordable Housing
Projectinthe amount of $18 million.We support thisprojectas itwillprovidemuch-
needed workforce housing, and willassistindecreasing the commute times and traffic
congestion on our roads. We do recognize that this may set a precedence for
developers, and we're not,you know, we're not infavor ofwhat has transpired,butwe
are in favor of supporting this project. Thank you for the opportunityto provide
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Aloha, Lisa. Just,can you clarifywhat you
meant by you're not infavor of what has transpired?
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 71
MS. PAULSON; That the developer isseeking thatadditionalfunding. We don'tv\/antto set
a precedent for that going forward when we look at developing future affordable
housing.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, okay. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification.Thank
you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Ms. Paulson, foryour testimony.
Ijustwanted to clarify,you are infavor of the pricepointthough, right?
MS. PAULSON; Yes. Yes, it'svery much needed. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay. The pricesare affordable.Okay. Got it.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Although we’re not talkingabout thattoday. Alright,anybody else,questions?
Ifnot,thank you very much, Ms. Paulson.
May we have the next testifier,please.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifieris Lahela Aiwohi. And Lahela iscurrentlythe lastone to
sign up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
(testifying on Committee ReportMS. LAHELA AIWOHI. HAWAII HOTEL ALLIANCE
No. 22^110);
Aloha, Chair Lee. Aloha Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. Mahalo forallyour hard work.
We reallyappreciate it.So, Iam testifyinginsupport of Bill152. As you heard from
Lisa Paulson, you know, we are, oh sorry,Iam Lahela Aiwohi,and Iam testifyingon
behalf of the Hawaii Hotel Alliance. And Iam a registeredlobbyist.
CHAIR LEE; On 159?
MS. AIWOHI; 152.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 72
MS. AlWOHI: So, Hawaii Hotel Alliance is in support of Bill152, the additionalfunding of
$18 millionfor Pulelehua. We ailknow that Maui is indesperate need of workforce and
affordable housing, especiallyon the west side, as we see the congestions in the
mornings and inthe afternoons. And being able to provide thisamount of workforce
housing and being able to provide a projectat an affordablecost,thisonly helps with
our workforce in the industry,and again, help to alleviatethe trafficthat is,that right
now we see isheavy on the west side. So again, IbelievethatJerryGibson, from the
Hawaii Hotel Alliance also submitted writtenreport,or writtentestimony insupport of
Bill152 as well. So, mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any questions.Members? No questions. Thank you.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: There iscurrently,okay hold on justa second. Ihave one more individual
wanting to testify.Mr. Stephen West.
MR. STEPHEN WEST (testifyingon Committee Report No. 22-110):
Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Councilmembers. 1 do support 152, Pulelehua. You know,
the bottom lineisthe cost of living.The high prices of homes on Maui isjustgoing
through the roof. Our kids are moving away on a rateof about 2,000 studentsa year.
And we need more projectslikethisthatbringaffordablehomes to families.So, I'm
not a registeredlobbyist,Iwork for ILWU and I'm testifyingactuallyas an individual.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions.Members? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. West.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: This is a lastcallfortestimony on item J. Committee Reports. Last call
fortestimony. Please indicateyour desiretotestify.Chair,there'sno one elsetotestify
on section J. Committee Reports.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objections to dosing publictestimony and acceptingwritten
testimony intothe recordforcommittee reports?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting ofthe Councilofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 73
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair,proceeding with committee reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-110NO. BUDGET. FINANCE. AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill152 (2022). entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING APPENDIX A OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY
OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND (PULELEHUA AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROJECT)," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-110.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Johnson, to approve the Committee Report 22-110, the recommendations therein.
Further discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Your Budget. Finance, and Economic
Development Committee met on October 19. 2022, to discuss Bill152 (2022),which
would amend the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Appendix A, Part II,Special Purpose
Revenues - Schedule of Revolving/Special Funds, by adding an appropriation under
the Affordable Housing Fund for Maui Oceanview LP for the Pulelehua Affordable
Housing Projectinthe amount of $18 million.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 74
The developer confirmed the Projectwillpilotthe newly adopted sales priceguidelines
for affordable homes and would be calculated in accordance with Ordinance 5441, and
thatthey have elected to pilotthe affordablehousing lotteryprocess established by
Ordinance 5315, which gives priorityto preapproved homebuyers based on length of
residency on Maui.
The developer also noted they had no issue with including an owner occupancy
conditionand a conditionrequiringthe unitsto remain affordable,the unitsto remain
affordablehousing in perpetuityusing a managed appreciationresale model in the
Workforce Housing Agreement.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend passage of Bill152 (2022) on firstreading.
I want to thank this Council for all the work that was put in. Member Johnson as our
AffordableHousing Committee Chair forspearheading the ordinances that Ijustcited.
Member Paltin for working closely with her community for getting this through.
Mr. Cheng for his willingnessto pilota lotof these initiativesthatthisCouncil passed.
Ms. Nishikiforher continued advocacy, as well as Mr. Nakoa's continued advocacy on
the west side in supporting thisproject. I respectfullyask for the Councilmembers
support of thismotion. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Yes, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Iriseinfullsupport of thismotion. And
Ijust,Iwould echo what Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez said about appreciating
everybody who helped, helped make thisprojecthappen. But Ireallywant to focus in
on this body's willingness to work together. Sometimes we, we liketo have long
debates that get passionate and heated, but thiswas one that Ithinkyou could really
see us allcome together and make thishappen, because the price is right,and the
folksare needy. So, let'shelp them out. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. And thank you to my colleagues,Mr. Cheng,
Ms. Nishiki,Ms. Pajimola, everyone involved inthisproject.You know, it'sso needed
in my community, and not to say there weren't people thatstillwere afraidof the lack
of infrastructure. And the lack of infrastructure is true. We don't have the northern
terminus of the bypass. We don't have ailthe schools thatwe need.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 75
But as Member Rawlins-Fernandez said yesterday,the basic need isshelter.And so
many people need shelter.And thisisneeded as rentsat apartment buildingsthatare
from the 70s, arrivalof brand new apartment buildings,people are being pushed out
of theirhome on a dailybasis. 1get textmessages, emails nearlyevery day. And I
startedgettinginvolvedwith the appeals process forKaiaulu o Kupuohi. And so many
people are just,you know, coming out ofthe pandemic with a littletinyblemish on your
creditreportand you can'teven get intothe low-income housing. So, thisishuge.
I shared it in Committee how the first time 1 met Mr. Cheng, I didn'thave very nice
things to say. Ijustwanted to say Itake them allback. And thank you so much for
working with my community, and not takingthose things Isaidatthe LUC the firsttime
Imet you personally. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments, or confessions?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 1think you called on me through the laughter. But yeah,
Tamara did say thatat the Committee meeting, and Mr. Cheng nodded his head, so I
guess you guys are friendsnow. But 1willsay thatIsupported thisout of Committee,
and fortoday, Iwant to say thatIsupport thiswith reservationsbecause we are paying
$300,000 as a supplement housing. Iwas tryingto get,Iwas hoping he would say he
would do this for infrastructure,because then the money, $18 millionwould go a lot
fartherbecause itwould help other development projects,or otherpropertiesalong the
way and not only Pulelehua.
But itiswhat itis. Iwillsay again what I said in Committee, just,you know, forthe
community to hear,thatifwe're going to do thisforthisprojectforhousing,we need to
do thisfairlyforotherprojects.And Ihope Mr. Carnicelliand other,the Kihune's,those
few thatare stilldeveloping on Maui, as housing has become such a challenge,that
they willcome and apply forthisaffordablehousing funds,so thatitcan be used inthis
way.
And justas a side note,ifyou thinkwe're tryingto build,and thisthingjustkindofblew
me away when I did the math. So, ifwe were tryingto build5,000 homes, right,
according to the comprehensive affordablehousing plan,and we're going to pay out
$300,000 per home to get the priceright,that'sgoing to be $1.5 billionthatthisCounty's
going to have to come up with,with tax dollars.So, thatisa greatconcern forme. But
thisison itsway, and I look forward to hearing from otherdevelopers so thatwe can
equally support other projects. It'sa lotof money. 1don'tthinkthisisa good use of
money either.Thanks.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 76
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Member Sugimura, are you inyour office? Not office,but are
you on the 9th floor?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes. I'mokay now. IfIget-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, it'sworking.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -connectivity problems likeIdid earlier.I'llletyou know.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: It'sworking.
CHAIR LEE: Working. Anyone else.Members? Discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I'llmake thisquick. There's a couple
pointsthat Iforgotto make. It'sone, our Comprehensive AffordableHousing Plan.
Thankfully itdoesn'ttellus to build5,000 more homes. It'sshowing us, itprovidesus
a roadmap on how to provide 5,000 homes. And thatwould includeconvertingsome
of the homes that we lost to vacation rentals. So, some of those would come back to
the long-term inventory.
That thiswould, thisprojectwould pay forinfrastructure,includingR1 reuse,so thatit
wouldn't relyso heavilyon injectionwell. And thatthe infrastructurethatwould be put
in forthisprojectwould benefitthe neighboring DHHL project,so thatwe can help
DHHL fulfillits constitutional mandate to return kanaka to aina. So, those were justa
couple important points that I wanted to make. And that'smy second and final.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else. Members?
Okay, allthose infavorofthe motion to pass thisbill,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SlNENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 77
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-111NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE, AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending thatResolution 23-232, CD1 .entitled"URGING THE COUNTY OF
MAUI AND ITS TOURISM INDUSTRY TO ADOPT SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
PRACTICES AND CERTIFICATION." be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair,actually,our Vice-Chair Sinenci isgoing to propose the two
committee reportsout of our Committee because 1wasn't sure how stablemy internet
was going to be, so he has allmy notes and isprepared to-
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: -make the motion. Thank you. Thank you, Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-111.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to approve
committee report,the recommendation in Committee Reports 22-111.
Discussion? Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your CARE Committee met on October 19.
2022, and discussed Resolution 22-232, entitled,"URGING THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 78
AND ITS TOURISM INDUSTRY TO ADOPT SUSTAINABLE TOURISM PRACTICES
AND CERTIFICATION."
The Resolution22-232'spurpose isto urge the County of Maui and itstourism industry
to adopt sustainable tourism practices,become certifiedforsustainability.
Your Committee noted the Global Sustainable Tourism Council, or GSTC, has two sets
of criteria;DestinationCriteriafor publicpolicy-makers and destination managers; and
IndustryCriteriafor hotelsand tour operators.
Your Committee agreed to amend the resolutionto encourage hotels, transient
accommodations, and tour operators to seek certificationon sustainable tourism
standards.
Your Committee agreed to furtheramend the resolutionto remove "develop a plan to
achieve the goal of becoming a CertifiedSustainable Destination":insert instead,
"includethe goal of becoming a certifiedSustainable Destination inthe Climate Action
and Resiliency Plan.";and also add additionalnames to the listof recipients.
Chair, your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-232, CD1
and Irespectfullyrequest the Members support of thismotion.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Member Johnson.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes' zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 79
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-112NO. CLIMATE ACTION. RESILIENCE. AND ENVIRONMENT
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 153, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
REPEALING CHAPTER 16.16B, MAUI COUNTY CODE, AND ESTABLISHING A
NEW CHAPTER 16.16C, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE ENERGY
CODE" be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-112.
COUNCILMEMBER KING:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member King, to approve the
recommendation inCommittee Report 22-112.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Your CARE Committee met on October 19,
2022, and discussed Bill 153 (2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
REPEALING CHAPTER 16.16B, OF THE MAUI COUNTY CODE, AND
ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 16.16C, OF THE MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO THE ENERGY CODE".
Bill153's purpose isto adopt the Hawai'iState Energy Code, withmodificationsspecific
to the County of Maui.
Your Committee noted in accordance with Section 107-28(a), of the Hawai'i Revised
Statutes,that each county may amend the State Energy Code as itappliesto their
respectivejurisdiction,withoutan approval from the State BuildingCode Council,within
two years afterthe adoption of the State Energy Code. Deadline forcountiesto adopt
this energy code is December 15, 2022, or the State Energy Code willbecome
applicable as an interim county energy code in accordance with the
Section 107-28(a), HRS.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 80
Chair, your Committee agreed to amend the billto mandate solar readiness for new
commercial and residential construction; include a Zero Net Energy Requirement for
homes over 5,000 square feet; apply the certificaterequirement to the tropical
exemption: remove the photovoltaicrequirement forelectricvehicle stalls;remove the
pointspathway forelectricvehiclereadinesscompliance;add a new sectionamending
the insulation and fenestration criteriafor Floor R-Value in Climate Zones 1 and 2 from
13to0.
Members, your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage of Bill153, CD1 (2022)
on firstreading. And Irespectfullyrequest the Members support of thismotion.
CHAIR LEE; Further discussion?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Member, Committee Vice-Chair
Sinenci. Ireallyappreciateyou being,Iactuallyhave people kind of sittingaround me,
so it'sgood ifI don't do too much talking. But I did want to thank members of the
community who, you know, liveby these codes and came out to help us make thisa
bettercode for Maui County, ArchitectDavid Sellers,the green building Hawaii, or
Green BuildingMaui folksthatwork with John Bendon and Rob Weltman.
And Ialso wanted to say thatone of the pieces of advice we got from Corp. Counsel
was that once we adopt, once we adopt amendments, we can make further
amendments on this code throughout the year. If we don't adopt them by
December 15, we can'tmake any more amendments. We just have to livewith what
the Stategave us. So, justkeep thatinmind incase there'sfurtheramendments down
the road,thatwe do have thatoption ifwe pass thisnow. Thank you. Members.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, Ihave a question.What did Department
of PublicWorks have to say about this? Just curious. Ididn'tsee it.
CHAIR LEE: You're asking Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Or Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Idon'tthinkwe got any response. We did send them the, you
know, they had the billwhen we had the bill,and we haven't gotten any furtherinput.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 81
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, okay. So, they had no objectionsor concerns, Iguess
you're considering that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No. And Ithink, and Ithink ifthey do inthe future,they can bring
additional amendments to the code.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. I'llinquire.Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Members.
COUNTY CLERK: -Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Resolutions.
COUNTY CLERK; Oh, we have some more committee reports.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-113NO. GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Resolution
JOHNSON FROM THE PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION FOR THE COUNTY OF
MAUI", be ADOPTED.
22-189 entitled "REMOVAL OF ROBERT
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 82
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Mahalo Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-113.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Member Sugimura, to approve the
committee, the recommendation inCommittee Report 22-113.
Discussion. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations,
Ethics,and Transparency Committee met on October 18, 2022, to discuss Resolution
22-189. This resolution'spurpose isto approve the removal of Robert Johnson from
the PublicWorks Commission due to non-compliance withthe attendance policysince
being appointed by the Council on March 9, 2018, for a term expiring on March 31,
2023.
Your Committee notes Charter Section 13-2(5) provides members of boards and
commissions appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council, may be
removed for cause upon recommendations of such removal by the Mayor and the
approval of two-thirdsof the entiremembership of the Council.
The Mayor's representative,Mr. Mossman said Mr. Johnson has served on the Public
Works Commission since 2018 and met the attendance requirements untilAugust 26
of 2020.
The Mayor's representativethen noted Mr. Johnson did not exhibit character issues
and the recommendation forhisremoval was based solelyon his non-attendance and
inabilityto get incontactwith him.
Your Committee voted 8-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution22-189. 1ask for the
Members fullsupport ofthismotion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 83
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Molina. Ijust wanted to
verify/clarify,it'sjustthisone member. The other member on the agenda we're not
taking action?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that is correct. Yeah. Just on Mr. Johnson's removal
yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Thank you. Support.
CHAIR LEE: Allthose infavorofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.Thank you.
Next committee report.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-114NO. GOVERNMENT REU\TIONS. ETHICS. AND TRANSPARENCY
COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 126 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII,
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED
TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-114.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 84
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Molina,seconded by Member Sugimura, to approve the
recommendation inCommittee Report 22-114.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahaio, Madam Chair. Your Government Relations, Ethics
and Transparency Committee met on October 18, 2022, to discuss Bill126 of 2022.
This bill'spurpose isto authorize the Mayor to enter intoa Memorandum ofAgreement
with the State of Hawaii'sDepartment of Health to provide the DOH with access to data
from autopsy and police investigativereports related to deaths occurring in Maui
County from suicides,homicides,accidentaldrug overdose,and undetermined deaths.
The Agreement as attached, as itstates in Exhibit"1",states the Department of Police
would receivea sub-grantof $14,000 through DOH from the CDC to be used over a
five-yearperiod.
Department representativesaid Hawaii has been participatingin the program since
2015 and isone of 32 stateswho have opted in.
The previous sub-grant forthe period of September 1, 2014, to August 31, 2019, and
was renewed forthe period September 1,2019, toAugust 31,2022. But records have
continued to be shared since August 31, 2022, untilthe Memorandum ofAgreement is
approved by the Council according to guidance received from the State Office of
Information Practices.
And finally,the Representative noted the Agreement allows DOH to de-identifyand
share records with the Centers for Disease Control "CDC" National Violent Death
Reporting System and the CDC State UnintentionalDrug Overdose Reporting System.
The data is used for the establishment and continued funding of relevantprevention
programs.
Your Committee voted unanimously, 9-0 to recommend passage of Bill126 on first
reading. Mahaio, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor ofthe motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 85
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes". Member Paltin.Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-115 INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:NO.
Recommending that Bill 124 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ADOPTING THE HAWAII STATE FIRE CODE, WITH CERTAIN AMENDMENTS
THERETO," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-115.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member, Pro Tern Kama, toapprove
the recommendation in Committee Report 22-115.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Thank you. Chair. Your Infrastructureand
TransportationCommittee met on October 3, 2022, to discussBill124 (2022),entitled
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE HAWAII STATE FIRE CODE, WITH
CERTAIN AMENDMENTS THERETO".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 86
Bill124’s purpose is to update the County Fire Code by incorporatingamendments
made to the Hawai'i Fire Code, 2018 Edition, with additional revisions recommended
by the Department of Fireand PublicSafety.
Your Committee notes each county must amend the Hawai'i Fire Code as itapplies to
theirrespectivejurisdictionswithintwo years of itsadoption. The amendment deadline
forcounties isJanuary 19, 2023, or the State FireCode willprevail.
Your Committee notes the FireDepartment's amendments incorporateCounty-specific
modifications, including code reference updates, permit recommendations, permit
requirements, and the establishment of fees and fines.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend passage of Bill124 (2022) on firstreading.
Irespectfullyask forthe Members support of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-116NO. INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 133. CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
TO AMEND TITLE 10, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC. MAUI COUNTY CODE. RELATING
TO COMMERCIAL DOCKLESS VEHICLES AND PENALTIES," be PASSED ON
FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 87
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-116.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-116.
Discussion,Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair. Your Infrastructureand Transportation
Committee met on October 3, 2022, and October 17, 2022, to discuss Bill133 (2022),
entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10, MAUI COUNTY CODE.
RELATING TO DOCKLESS VEHICLES AND PENALTIES".
Bill133's purpose isto make itunla\ATulto park, leave standing or lying,abandon, or
otheiwise place a commercial dockless vehicle on a sidewalk, street,highway, or
public property; make itunlawful to operate a dockless vehicle on a sidewalk; and
increase the penalty amount forviolationsof Title10, Maui County Code.
Your Committee notes that while the dockless vehicles provide increased mobility
options over short distances, they pose considerable safety and public health
concerns, create trippinghazards, make sidewalks inaccessibleto the disabled,and
help to create clutteredand unsafe environments forpedestrians.
Your Committee acknowledged thatwhile no vendors offerthisserviceinMaui County,
your Committee agreed itwould be beneficialto implement legislationpriorto the
matter becoming a community concern.
Your Committee notes that the department, the representativesfrom Department of
Planning, Department of Police,Departmentof PublicWorks, and Maui BicycleLeague
expressed theirsupport forthe bill.
Your Committee also, your Committee agreed to amend the billto add "commercial'
to the titleto clarifythatprivately-ownedmulti-modalvehicleswould not be impacted.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 88
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend passage of Bill133, CD1 (2022) on first
reading. I would also liketo commend Tamara Paltinfor bringing this forward to
prevent any possible problems, as she, Ithinkmaybe she could express itherself.But
she expressed, through her travels,where she saw thatthiscould be a problem inour
community. We also worked, also heard from the disabled community to say thatthey
also support this bill.So, I respectfullyask for the Members support of my motion.
Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Further discussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Members, forsupport of thisbill.Ifirstencountered
the issue in Marseille,when we went forthe lUCN. And, you know, the electricscooters
and everything isa lotof fun, but when they'relyingallover the sidewalk and inthe
streets,itkind of becomes a hazard, especiallyforfolks with disabilities.I'm in full
support of having those types of things but just,you know, keeping them organized
and not layingallover the ground. Since Icame back to Hawaii, I have heard of the
problem being, or the issue being a problem inother states.
(Councilmember King was excused at 2:14 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And so, as the bike tour billwas being taken up, Ithought it
would be reallytimelyjustincase someone decided to put a few bikes rightoutside of
Haleakala and, and you know, have thatbe app opened device. So, Ithinkthisisreally
heading offa big problem, hopefully. Cross my fingers. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes",oh, eight"ayes".
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Kelly's-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 89
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",one "excused"; motion carries.Ido not see Member King.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-117NO. INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
Recommending that Bill 151, CD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 10, MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO IMPLEMENTATION
OF A PARKING AMBASSADOR PROGRAM TO ENFORCE COUNTY AND STATE
PARKING RULES AND LAWS, A PAID PARKING SYSTEM, AND PERMIT PARKING
ZONES," be PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
1 MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-117.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Pro Tern Kama, to approve
the recommendations in Committee Report 22-117.
Discussion, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Justforthe Members information,Iasked Erin
Wade to standby because of the testimony thatwe heard thismorning to answer any
of the questions which Iwilladdress also.
But your InfrastructureTransportationCommittee met on October 17, 2022, to discuss
Bill151 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A PARKING
AMBASSADOR PROGRAM TO ENFORCE COUNTY AND STATE PARKING RULES
AND LAWS, A PAID PARKING SYSTEM, AND PERMIT PARKING ZONES".
Bill 151's purpose is to authorize a parking ambassador program to assist the
Department of Transportation in enforcing County and State parking rules and laws,
and implementing a parking payment system through the establishment of paid parking
zones and permit parking zones.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 90
Your Committee notes that Park Maui currently plans to launch the Parking
Ambassador Program inSeptember 2023 with PilotPhase 1 at Ulua Beach inWailea,
also known as Mokapu Beach Park, and Kamaole Beach Park, and Pilot2 at Lahaina
and Wailuku Town. And thisisthe commercial aspect of it.
The Committee notes that once the project is ready for launch, the Department of
Management willprovide specificdetailson time limits,costs,specificparking zones
along with parking detailingsuch locations.
Your Committee notes the parking istechnologicallybased and willoffera smart phone
applicationand kiosks at the locations,which willutilizean individual’sdriver'slicense
and vehicle'slicenseplatenumber forverificationforresidencyand trackinghow long
an individualhas been parked.
Your Committee notes the program is intended to be financiallyself-sustaining,
designed to reinforcecompliance, and willprovide warnings before citationsare
issued.
Your Committee notes thatquarterlyand annual reportswillbe providedwithcompiled
data to review the impact of the program.
Your Committee agreed to amend Chapter 10.78, Section 10.78.010(A)to add "for
areas designated forpaid parking zones inaccordance to Chapter 10.77."
Your Committee voted 5-0 to recommend passage of Bill151, CD1 (2022), on first
reading. Irespectfullyask forthe Members support of my motion.
And did Members want to hear from Erin Wade in answer to the concern, or yeah, I
guess itwas concerns thatwe heard earlier,before we take the vote?
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto having Erin Wade be a resource person forthis
item? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
And so, inthe meantime. Member Paltin,you have a questionor discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Ijustwas going to letMember Sugimura know thatwhen
Iread it,Ididn'tget thatinterpretationthatit...those things.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 91
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah. Yeah so, you kno\A/what,thanks Tamara, cause
this is enabling legislation.And as you allknow, when we go through the budget
process, right,the fees,ratesand fees willbe determined when we go through Keani
Rawlins' Budget Committee. So, none of that has been established.
But,you know, Iread on socialmedia, so IthinkI'mgoing to say thisnow, ifyou would
allow me to,Chair? That people are thinkingthatwe've already established fees which
are $30 and $50 to park your car here. And there'sa concern that residentswillhave
to pay that as in Lahaina and inWailuku.
And thatthe other concern that Isaw was that people thinkthat by enacting this,allof
the parking fees that we have rightnow, before we establishthe formal fees through
budget or allthe parking signs,willno longer be valid. So, Iwonder ifyou would allow
me to,Chair,ifErinWade ison, maybe she can speak to it,so we can clear up some
of the confusion that'sgoing on inthe community, ifyou think it'swarranted?
CHAIR LEE: Erin,are you on the call?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: There she is.
MS. ERIN WADE: I'mhere. Can you see me and hear me?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MS. WADE: Okay. Wonderful, thank you. Idid hear the testimony earliertoday. The first
comment was about the parking time limitsbeing rescinded. And justto clarify,it'sa
replacement, not a rescinding. So, on page 9 of the ordinance, and that's
Title10.48.050. What thisallows us to do isto regulateby signage. Instead of every
singletime a adjustment ismade withinthe County, making sure we have a lineitem
that expresses what that time limitis,this allows us to, throughout the County, to
manage by sign,which isa much more typicalway for municipalitiesto manage time
limitsfor parking. This does not rescind any time limitsat thistime. Itkeeps allthe
time limitsas is,untilsuch time as a paid parking zone isestablished.
And of course, we need to come back to you folksto establish a paid parking zone.
So, ailthisdoes isitreally,itmakes iteasier for us to ensure thatwe're matching the
regulationswith signage, and that we coordinate with Public Works to ensure that's
happening. Allof these locationsare currentlysigned to match the existingordinance,
and none of thatgets rescinded with this.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 92
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions,anyone? Ifnot,thank you.
Yes, Ms. Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Other concern thatvjas brought up on socialmedia isthat
residentsare going to have to pay the $30 and $50. So, Erin,can you justtalkabout
residentsbecause Ithinkthatwas probably the greaterconcern?
MS. WADE; So, the number one isno parking fees have been established at thistime. We
willcome back to County Council with a rates and fees proposal at a future date
followingthe completion of our data collection,cause Ido know thatthe testifierbrought
up the need foradditionaldata collectionthatiscurrentlyunderway. Once thatisdone,
we'llcome back to you with the establishment of the paid parking zones.
But as stated, the Administration's intention is to allow free all-dayparking to residents
at beaches and parks. And in the small towns, to allow up to two hours free for
residents in County off-streetparking. So, that doesn't,that isthe intentionforthe
Admin to provide. But of course, we're stilla littleways out untilwe provide a
recommendation for rates and fees. So, I have no idea where the $30 and $50
comment came from.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Thank you. Chair, for lettingErin clarifythis confusion
that'sgoing out inthe community, cause it'sconcerning. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paitin,did Isee your hand up? No?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; No. No. you didn't.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright,no one else? Thank you, Ms. Wade.
No furtherdiscussion. So, we have a motion on the floor,right? Allthose infavor of
the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 93
CHAIR LEE: Nine, eight"ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": Member King. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk?
Member Sugimura, are you, can you see her? Are you inthe conference room? No.
Members, let'stake a five-minute recess. Return at 2:30. Meeting in recess until2:30.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:24 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 2:32 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Willthe Council meeting of November 4, Friday,2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let'sresume where we leftoff.
COMMITTEE REPORT
22-118NO. PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:
Recommending thatResolution 22-213. CD1 ,entitled"REFERRING TO THE MAUI
PLANNING COMMISSION A PROPOSED BILL TO AMEND ORDINANCE 2924
(CONDITIONAL ZONING) FOR EMERGENCY AIRSTRIP OPERATIONS AT
KAPALUA AIRPORT", be ADOPTED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATION IN COMMITTEE
REPORT 22-118.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,seconded by Member Johnson, to approve the
recommendations in Committee Report 22-118.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 94
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. Oh. Thank you, Chair. Your Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee met on October 6, 2022 to discussion Resolution
22-213.
The resolution'spurpose isto amend Ordinance 2924 to extend the hours and allow
runway, to extend the hours to allow runway lightsforemergency airstripoperations at
Kapalua Airport.
During discussion,the Planning Directorrecommended amending the proposed bill
attached to the resolution to also include a definition of "emergency airstripoperations".
Your Committee noted the billwillhelp to ensure quick and effectiveaction in
emergency situationsto protectpropertyand the publichealthand safetyat night.
Your Committee voted 6-0 to recommend adoption of Resolution 22-213. 1would also
liketo note that thisconsiderationwas brought to me by the West Maui Taxpayers
Association,Mr. Joe Pluta,and a firefighterat Kapalua Airport,Mr. Ryan Takeshita.
And it'staken longer than Iexpected, but glad we can move thisalong. 1respectfully
ask forthe Councilmembers support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Member Paltin,uh. Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you, Ms. Paltin,fortaking thisup. And as you
know, that once this passes then the next step would be to work with the State
Legislature,ifthere'sgoing to be some additionalfunding forlighting.So, Iguess I'll
get thatinformation,or we can get thatinformationand pass iton. And appreciateyou
doing this. We had a discussion about, itfeelslikeitwas lastyear, yeah, when we
were talkingabout this.But ittook us thislong. So, thank you very much. And Ilook
forward toworking withyou to make thishappen.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 95
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused; Member KellyKing. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with agenda category K. Resolutions.Proceeding with
testimony on the resolutions.Our firsttestifierisMr. Mike Moran.
CHAIR LEE: . . . Mike.
MR. MIKE MORAN (testifyingon Resolution No. 22-254):
Aloha, Chair and Councilmembers. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community Association
and we are on No. 22-254, which reads "AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF THE
REAL PROPERTY AT 1488 SOUTH KIHEI ROAD, KIHEI".
I was pondering this.I'm not sure that any current Councilmember was sittingon
Council when thispropertywas a realhot button issue inour community. And itwent
through,of course,the process at the Council where ifyou'resomewhat familiarwith
South Maui, of course you'refamiliarwith South KiheiRoad, but thisisthe plotof land
that isjustsouth of the KiheiVeterinary,which has been therefordecades.
And there was an attempt to builda commercial projectthere.And most of us,and it's
now, Ithinkallof us agree thisiswetlands. But inthose days, itwas questionable.It
went back to the Federal guys, what's the definitionof a wetland? But fortunately,the
projectwas stopped by the process of the Council to not buildanything there that
wasn't appropriate locationto build.
And so,we realizedCommittee Member King isprobably offinthe wildblue yonder at
thispoint. But we did want to express our thanks to her formaking thisattemptto get
the Administrationto purchase thisplotof land. We seem to be seeing more and more
this,unfortunately,it'sbecoming the only way to stop developers from buildingin
inappropriatelocationsthatwe have to spend money and justkeep itopen.
But itseems to us it'smoney well spent. That we're tryingto preserve a littlebitof
wetlands area we have leftin South Maui. And as the years go by,we, we have been
tryingto get the Administrationto purchase another plotofland,which isliterallysitting
in the Kulanihakoi River Gulch. And itwas for sale for years. And not the present
Mayor, but priorMayors justsaid no, we're not going to buy it,because nobody isever
going to tryand buildthere.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 96
Well, now, land is sold, and . . . Peter Savio istryingto build there. He's purchased
another plotof land inanother river...where he wants to build.And yes, they alluse
affordablehousing ... So, we're not sure anything was proposed recentlyat thisplot
of land,but we are infullfavorof tryingto purchase the land justto keep itopen space
and preserve what littlebitof wetlands we do have in our community.
So, again, we express our thanks to Member King. And I'm sure her trustystaffis
monitoring and willlether know. So, we are infullsupport of thisaction. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Mike. Members, any questions for clarification?Ifnot,thank you
very much, Mike.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: . . . any items . . . resolution.Ifanybody on the callor inthe meeting
wants to testify,please identifyyourselfnow. Last callfor...on these items. No one
has, no one else has requested to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Are there any objectionsto closingpublictestimonyand acceptingwritten
testimony forresolutions?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-244
AUTHORIZING ACCEPTANCE OF THE DONATION OF
240 PAIRS OF FOOTWEAR TO THE OCEAN SAFETY BUREAU
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY.
PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 3.56, MAUI COUNTY CODE
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 97
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, mahalo, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-244, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina,second by Member Sugimura, to waive the Rules of
the Council regarding Resolution 22-244.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. This isan annual
donation and approval of my motion by a two-thirdsvote of the entiremembership of
the Council willenable the Council to consider the proposed resolutiontoday. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion on the waiver? Ifnot,allthose infavor ofthe motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
CHAIR LEE: Okay, nine "ayes", zero "noes". Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused
motion carries. Excused isMember King.
M.
Discussion. Imean, not discussion, but it'syour turn again. Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 98
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-244.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Paitin.to adopt Resolution
22-244.
Discussion, Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. OluKai would like to donate
240 pairsof footwear, with an estimated value of $25,460 to the Ocean Safety Bureau
of the Department of Fireand PublicSafety. The footwear isbeing donated to provide
protectivefootwear forallocean safety officersemployed inthe lifeguarddivision.
Chapter 3.65 [sic],Maui County Code, authorizes the Council to accept giftsand
donations on behalf of the County.
And Iknow thismatter iscertainlyvery special to my colleague from West Maui, who
is a long-time lifeguard. I ask for the Members fullsupport of this motion. Mahalo,
Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot,allthose infavorthe motion, raiseyour
hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
King.
one "excused": motion carries. Excused is Member
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 99
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, recommended for referralto your Government Relations, Ethics
and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-245
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF
VERONICA LU'UKIA NAKANELUA TO THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY
FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
CHAIR LEE: Member. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Consideration on Resolution 22-245.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-245, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by the Bobbsey Twins Paltinand Molina
to waive the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo. Members, there is a 60-day timeline for this
appointment. In addition,at the lastmeeting of the GREAT Committee, the Mayor's
representativeexpressed the need to fillthispositionon the Board ofWater Supply as
quickly as possible. . ..
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 100
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Okay. Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused; motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-245.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Member Paltin,to adopt Resolution
22-245.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Ms. Nakanelua was a Hawai'i Post-Juris
Doctor Legal Fellow,where she provided government entitieswith factualand legal
research and other support on a range of issues including,Native Hawaiian tradition
and customary practices, initiativesand policies impacting access to freshwater
resources, and water leases under Hawai'i Revised Statutes Chapter 171.
She also provided important research and drafted memoranda regarding unique
aspects of Native Hawaiian Water Law and the publictrustdoctrine,coupled withthe
intersection of local,Federal and internationallaw. With that,Irespectfullyrequest the
Councilmembers support of thismotion.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorofthe motion,raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 101
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes". Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; Member King. Motion
carries.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Members.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Moving forward with Resolution 22-246. Recommended for referralto
your Government Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-246
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF DELDRINE KAUINOHEA MANERA TO
THE COUNCIL ON AGING FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-246 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(See pages 103 through 105 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE: Keep going. Keep going.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-247
RELATING TO THE APPOINTMENT OF
BLAINE APO TO THE MAUI PLANNING COMMISSION
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-247 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 102
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-248
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF ASHLEY HOOKS
V. COUNTY OF MAUI. ET AL.. CIVIL NO.: 2CCV-21-0000034
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-248 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-249
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM NO. 4072108
OF JAMSHED HAQ
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-249 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-250
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM NO. 4072812
OF HALE MAHAOLU
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-250 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto these re,oh, sorry. Let me justtake this. Any objectionsto
the resolutionsread by the Clerk?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 103
DISCUSSION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-246
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Consideration for Resolution 22-246,
relatingto the appointment of Deldrine Kauinohea Manera to the Council on Aging for
the County of Maui.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections,Members? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry,not inmy notes.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Molina, to
waive the Rules of the Council so that we can take itup rightnow.
And Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, any, any comments on that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. We're ending the,we're nearing the
end of our term and time is of the essence, so that we can take things up quicker.
There's a lotof business to be had, so I'llkeep itthere. And my apologies, I didn't
request forthisto be inmy notes. I'mdoing iton the fly.Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Anymore comments on the waiver? Allthose in favor of the motion
please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 104
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes";one "excused", Member King. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-246.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt Resolution 22-246.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. This is,mahalo to the Mayor, and
Mr. Mossman for the nomination of,who we callAunty Kaui. Ms. Manera is retired
from working with the kupuna at Aiu Like foryears. And Iwish Ihad something more
prepared, so Icould do her nomination more justice.But she's a kupa'aina of Molokai,
generational family from Manae. And strongly rooted in uplifting,and advocating for
our kupuna here, and pae aina wide. And Iknow Kaui would be a strong advocate on
the Council on Aging forour kupuna. And mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 105
NOES; NONE,
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes' zero "noes",one "excused"; Member King. Motion carries.
Do you have any objectionsto the restof the referrals,Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Ihad consideration for22-251, ifthatisalright?
CHAIR LEE: We didn'tget thereyet.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Never mind then
CHAIR LEE: That wasn't read yet. The previousones up to 22-250. Any objections to the
referralsas read by the Clerk?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No objectionsup to 22-250.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Up to,yeah, right.So, ordered
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-251
APPROVING FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2023
HAWAl'l STATE ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO
ELIMINATE THE NEED FOR SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA USE PERMITS FOR
CERTAIN ENVIRONMENTALLY DESIREABLE
ACTIVITIES
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 106
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR RESOLUTION 22-251, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Pro Tern Kama, to waive the Rules of the
Council regarding Resolution 22-251.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. So, we've already discussed thisproposal
for inclusion at the last Hawaii State Association of Counties LegislativePackage and
the HSAC-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thisisonly on the waiver.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Time-sensitive.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Time-sensitive.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand,
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 107
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes";one "excused", motion carries.Excused isMember
King.
Vice-Chair, Imean, not Vice-Chair. But Member Paltin,your turn.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
I MOVE TO APPROVE FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2023 HAWAN
STATE ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES LEGISLATIVE
PACKAGE A STATE BILL TO ELIMINATE THE NEED FOR
SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA USE PERMITS FOR CERTAIN
ENVIRONMENTALLY DESIRABLE ACTIVITIES.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Paltin,second by Pro Tern Kama, to adopt Resolution
22-251.
Further discussion. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah. So, this wasn't when we had allfive Members there.
People dropped off. Member King dropped off,Member Kama went, dropped offat
that point. So, there wasn't a quorum there,justwanted to be clear. We already
discussed thisforproposal forinclusioninthe lastHawaii StateAssociationofCounties
LegislativePackage. And the HSAC Executive Committee has also already reviewed
and tentativelyapproved the proposal, which 1can furtherexplain. That was the partI
was supposed to read forthe waiver.
Resolution 22-25Ts purpose is to approve for inclusion in the 2023 Hawai'i State
Association of Counties Legislative Package a State billwhich would expand
exclusions to the definitionof "development" in Chapter 205A, Hawai'i Revised
Statutes,and eliminatethe need forSpecial Management Area Use Permitsforcertain
environmentally desirable activities.
Examples of these exclusions are installation,maintenance, repair,and replacement
of public pedestrian and bicycle facilitiesto reduce reliance on vehicles; lighting,
fixtures,and equipment to comply with standards at publicfacilities,includinghealth
and safety standards, to protect native seabird populations and reduce lightpollution;
and security measures for existingpublic facilities.Italso excludes trash removal.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4. 2022
Page 108
invasive vegetation removal or control that would, that doesn't use like harmful
pesticidesnear the shoreline,and doesn’t perpetuate erosion; fencing for invasive
species control or preservation of native habitats to improve the quality of the
environment.
This proposal was discussed, pending Maui County Council's approval, it'llbe
included.The HSAC LegislativePackage as approved by HSAC Executive Committee
willbe posted on the next Council meeting agenda for our consideration. So, it's
importantwe act on thisresolutiontoday. And one other thing Ithink itincluded was
sidewalks. And that was something that Ithink Planning and Public Works wanted,
because they were having hard time do the sidewalks in the SMA because of the
permitting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more comments, or questions,or discussion? Ifnot, allthose in
favor of adopting thisresolution,raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries. Excused is Member
King.
Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-252
URGING THE STATE LEGISLATURE AND THE GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF HAWAII TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
PROPOSED WEST MAUI HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-252 be referred to the Human Concerns
Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 109
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, Ithought we were going to referthisone to Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Oh okay, that'sfine.Any objectionto referringthisitem to Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes? Yes, Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Willitgo to HCP?
CHAIR LEE: Refer to HCP.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-253
REFERRING TO THE MAUI PLANNING
COMMISSION A PROPOSED BILL TO CHANGE
THE ZONING FROM M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICT AND OPEN ZONE DISTRICT TO B-2
BUSINESS DISTRICT FOR REAL PROPERTY
SITUATED IN MAALAEA, MAUI, HAWAI‘I,
IDENTIFIED AS TAX MAP KEYS (2)3-6-008-002
AND (2)3-6-008:003 (MAUI OCEAN CENTER)
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-253 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any objectionsto referringthisto the Maui planning, oh, referringthisto
Committee. Isthatthe plan? Refer to Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 110
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No objections.So, ordered.
The next. We only have two more, yeah?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-254
AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF THE REAL
PROPERTY AT 1488 SOUTH KIHEI ROAD,
KIHEI, MAUI, HAWAI‘1
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-254 be referred to the Government
Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-254 lA'AS LATER REFERRED TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE,
through 114 fordiscussion and action.)
See pages 111
CHAIR LEE: Any objectionsto referringthisto the GREAT Committee?
Oh, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I believe Councilmember King was asking ifitcould be
referred to the BFED Committee. But ifMember Rawlins-
CHAIRLEE: The BFED Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Ifshe had time to bringitup. Ifnot,that's.. .
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, would you be able to take thisone up?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Can Iget a couple seconds to consult?
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 111
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Can we have a recess, Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we'lltake a fiveminute recess. Come back at three minutes after3.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Or, Chair, it'sclose to our afternoon break time
anyway.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, then we'lltake 12 minutes, 3:10.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: 3:10. Meeting in recess till3:10.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 2:57 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:12 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT MEMBER KING, EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the Council meeting of Friday, November 4, please reconvene. Itis
3:12 p.m.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: We left off with Resolution 22-254, entitled "AUTHORIZING THE
PURCHASE OF THE REAL PROPERTY AT 1488 SOUTH KIHEI ROAD, KIHEI, MAUI,
HAWAIT'.
Initially,itwas noted to go to the Government Relations,Ethics,and Transparency
Committee for referral. And Councilmember Sinenci is requesting itgo to Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development.
CHAIR LEE: That itgo to where? I'm sorry,Ididn'thear you.
COUNTY CLERK: Budget, Finance, and Economic Development.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. And then. Igot a textfrom Member King saying,"ifthey can'ttake it,
she'lltake it",the Climate Committee. So, what is,what iseverybody's pleasure? Who
wants it?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 112
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Icould take itup on November 30.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Are you going to be here November 30?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Why, where am Igoing?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Ithought you were going to court.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh.
CHAIR LEE; That's right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Well.Imean, notjustme.
CHAIR LEE; We better,I'mglad you remembered Member Kama. We betterreferthisto the
climate, the CARE Committee.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Isn'tshe going to courttoo?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Going to court,yeah.
CHAIR LEE; Idon'tthink-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Everyone but Yuki Lei is.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; She is.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Yuki Lei can be virtual,the restof us, they said,we gotta go.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Yeah, but even ifshe is virtualand she holds it,who's going to
be there to attend? Cause hers isinthe morning.
CHAIR LEE; Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Madam Chair,you know, let'sjusttentativelyreferit.And ifit
happens to fallon that day. ithappens. Ifnot.then I'm sure maybe, Idon't know ifall
nine Members willbe calledup the same day then, you know, there isa Committee-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 113
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, they saidjustone ...
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: .. .Committee has a vice-chairpotentially.So, itstillcould,
some Committees could stillpotentiallyoperate withouttheirCommittee Chairs. So, I
don't know. My thoughts isjust,just leave itgo. I'm in favor of Member Rawlins-
Fernandez ifshe wants itfor the 30th. So, anyway, rather than spending so much
time,you know, deciding.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But we know who's not going, and that'sMember Sugimura.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Member Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Oh yeah, him too. Member Sugimura. Why didyou have your hand up? Were
you volunteeringto take it?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'llgladlytake anything,but it’sgoing to be hard having a
Committee meeting with allof you away.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No. we'llbe virtual.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: But you'regoing to be inthe courtroom.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: She only said-
CHAIR LEE: You know something--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -she needs us for one hour each.
CHAIR LEE: She might be, she might be sedated. How about you. Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: No, no, no. November 16 ismy surgery. November 16 is
my, okay. Let'smove on.
CHAIR LEE: Let'ssend itto Member Johnson. Did you hear that.Madam Clerk?
Any objections?
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 114
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER SlNENCi; Chair. I,wejust-
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That was, I,I don't know, but, Member King, that was her
request that itgo to BFED.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Right. But then, Igot a texta few minutes ago thatsaid ifthe,ifBFED
can't take itand ifGREAT can't take it,then she would take iton November 30. But
then. Member Kama reminded us that we allhave to be in Honolulu, maybe. We don't
know. But we have to be on standby.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But it'sonly forone hour.
CHAIR LEE: You know, we're on standby. So, the one person who's not going is Member
Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: And me.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, butwe alreadytalkedabout your operation,so you'renot available.We're
not sure you're available. So, shallwe just,let'snot fightover this.This isnot worth
it.
Member Johnson, ifyou don't mind taking itjust,and we can always send itto
somebody else.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Inthe spiritof camaraderie, I'lltake it.And then, we'llsend
itsomewhere else later.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alright.So, member, Imean not member, but
Madam Clerk,did you get that referral?22-254 to Member Johnson's Committee.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. And then our finalresolutionisrecommended forreferralto
the Government Relations,Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 115
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-255
AUTHORIZING EMPLOYMENT AND ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION
RELATED TO THE SPECIAL COUNSEL
KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP, AS THE COUNTY OF MAUI'S
BOND AND DISCLOSURE COUNSEL FOR THE NEXT GENERAL
OBLIGATION BOND ISSUANCE. OTHER BONDS,
AND OTHER LEGAL SERVICES
CHAIR LEE; Okay, any objectionsto referringthisto the GREAT Committee? No?
Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. For Resolution 22-255, our Bond
Counsel.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You want to do what?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Consideration of,Iguess Ihave to do a-
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G
OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Resolution 22-255.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. This is for the consultation from our
Bond Counsel.
CHAIR LEE; Alright,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 116
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused; Member King. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-255.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
adopt Resolution 22-255.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, the scope of work for Bond and
Disclosure Counsel services include legaland tax advice, and legaland tax opinions,
as required,or required on the 2021 General ObligationBonds and other proposed
bond, which also include having them as a resource personnel in discussion with
affordablehousing initiatives,meaning Affordable Housing Committee, as wellas the
Budget Committee. So, Ihope forthe Members support of thismotion to adopt today.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion.Members? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion, raise
your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 117
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes", zero "noes", one "excused; motion carries. Excused is
Member King.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with category,agenda category M. Bills.We have
Robin Knox scheduled to provide testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Please callher.
COUNTY CLERK: Robin Knox, ifyou'restillon the call,it'syour turn fortestimony.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Isee her. Isee her.
MS. ROBIN KNOX Ftestifyina on BillNo. 177 (2022)1:
I’m here. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Yes, we can. Hi.
MS. KNOX: Okay, great.Well,Ijustwanted to say on thisone, Ithinkthere are some things
in here thatare reallyimportant,not only to South Maui, but to,inthe case of the turtle
fencing,reallyto the whole world. And Idon'tknow ifyou allremember, but back in
the 90's,there were two of the endangered hawksbill turtlesthat were, they were
mother turtles,they were fullof eggs, and they got onto thatroad and were hitby traffic
and killed.And that'sjusttragicwhen you have a species that isbarely hanging on,
you know, one step away from extinction.And that'swhy those fences were originally
built.
And lately,people have been crashing intothe fences,so that,you know, tryingtodrive
on the beach. And thatendangers these turtles,as well as, you know, not a good idea
to ride on the beach or crash into fences either,but the fences need to be repaired to
protect those turtles.So, that'ssuper important. You know, the turtlesnot only for
theirown worth, but it'sone of the things that makes Maui very special and magical, is
that we can see wildlife like that here on Maui.
For the Maalaea history,Inever reallyappreciated what that historywas until1got to
know Peter Cannon who grew up there and hear him describe what itwas likeinthe
past, itwas a vast wetlands. And also, talkingwith Lucienne de Naie and learning
about allthe culturalaspects, and particularfascinationfor me isthat there used to be
a red mud sediment that was considered healing, you know. Because I do a lotof
work where, with sediment. Itmakes me want to dig down there and find out more
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 118
about that. But we can have as a startingpoint this Maalaea historythat'sbeing
prepared.
And then, the thirdthing that Isupport isthe ecovillage concept. And thisisone that
Genesis Young has brought itup in itscurrent incarnation. But itisan idea that Ican
tellyou people inSouth Maui have been talkingabout. I'veheard talkabout itas far
back as 2008-2010. And so, Ithinkit'ssomething thatwould get a lotof support inthe
community. And Ithank Mr. Young for,you know, taking on, kind of spearheading that.
And, and thank you allforconsidering that,and urge you to support the funds forall
three of these projects.That's allI had. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else? Any comments, I mean, questions? Ifnot,thank
you very much, Ms. Knox.
Do we have any other testifiers.Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK: Ifthere are any attendees on the callthat want to testify,please make
yourselfknown now. Last callfortestimony ofbills.Chair, nobody has indicateddesire
to testifyon bills.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Testifierson M, "M" as inMano, Bills,
on M., and accepting writtentestimony forbills?
Any objectionsto closingtestimony
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No objections.So, ordered.
Madam Clerk,you can startwith bills.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with bills.
BILLS
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 169 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 9.28, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, RELATING TO AIR AND REPLICA GUNS
The recommended actionisthatBillNo. 169 (2022) be referredto the Government Relations
Ethics,and Transparency Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 119
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 170 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, MAUI COUNTY CODE.
RELATING TO ESTABLISHING A DIVISION OF GRANTS RESEARCH AND
WRITING UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT
The recommended actionisthat BillNo. 170 (2022) be referredto the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 170 (2022) WAS REFERRED TO HUMAN
CONCERNS AND PARKS COMMITTEE LATER IN THE
MEETING. See page 141 fordiscussion and action.)
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, how do you wish, how would you likeus to
handle these bills?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Which one, Bill170? Refer.
CHAIR LEE; 169,170. Are these for referrals?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh. 169 isgoing to me or to GREAT?
CHAIR LEE; Oh. that'sright.I'msorry,to GREAT. And then, 170 to you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, these are allreferrals.Any objectionsto referrals,to these referrals
Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, ordered forthese two items.
Okay, continuing on with 171.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 120
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 171 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
DPW HIGHWAY DIVISION COUNTYWIDE BASEYARD FACILITIES;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 172 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, COUNTYWIDE.
DPW HIGHWAY DIVISION COUNTYWIDE BASEYARD FACILITIES PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 173 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71. CD1, FD2 (2022), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS)
COUNTY CLERK: Bill174 (2022),entitled-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, stop. Stop.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 121
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 171, 172, AND 173 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills171, 172, and 173.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
ViCE-CHAlR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The FiscalYear 2022 funds for this
projectwilllapse on December 31, 2022. So, itis necessary to add thisproject to
FiscalYear 2023 Budget as soon as possible in order for the process to continue
without interruption.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, please raiseyour
hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes one "excused": Member King. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
f MOVE TO PASS BILL 171
READING.
172, AND 173 ON FIRST
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 122
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bills171, 172, 173 on firstreading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rav\/lins-Femandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of these bills
isto amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C, and the Bond Billto add the
projectdescriptionand appropriate an additional$1,207,000 in bond funding for the
Department of PublicWorks, DPW Highway DivisionCountywide Baseyard Facilities.
These funds willbe used forthe Lanai Baseyard Improvement project. Fiscal Year
2022 Budget included$900,000 infunding forthisproject.Based on the bid opening
held on October 19, 2022, these funds are insufficientto move forward withthe project.
There is also not sufficienttime to appropriatethe funds by the end of the calendar
year.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members may have. Irespectfullyask forMembers support of thismotion. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussionor any questionsto the Administration? Ifnot, allthose
infavorofthe motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes one "excused"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 123
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 174 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.
SOLID WASTE OPERATIONS PROGRAM;
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
COUNTYWIDE, OTHER PROJECTS. BOND FUND. COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 175 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE EQUIPMENT
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 176 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71 CD1, FD2 (2022), REIV\TING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Ra\A/lins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 174. 175, AND 176 IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 124
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills174, 75, 76.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the Administration is
asking for additionalfunding for landfillequipment due to cost escalations and a
change in the type of equipment needed. Amending the budget today willallow the
Department to proceed with procurement as soon as possible. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion,Members? Allthose infavor of the motion, please raise
your hand, say "aye".
Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes", one "excused", member; motion carries. Member
King isexcused.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 174, BILL 175, AND BILL 176 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 125
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, second by Member Sugimura, to
move to pass Bills174, 175, 176 on firstreading.
Discussion. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The purpose of these billsis to
amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C, and Bond Billto add $785,000
inadditionalbond funding forthe Department of Finance, Countywide Equipment, and
to increase Carryover/Savings from the SolidWaste Management Fund by $300,000
and appropriate these funds to the Department of Environmental Management, Solid
Waste Operations Program.
The two D-8 dozers included in the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget have increased incost by
$300,000 each since the initialestimates were received. Also, 185,000 is being
reappropriatedfrom FY 2022 for a backhoe loader to FY 23 foran excavator forthe
Molokai Landfall.
Finally,an appropriationof $225,000 for a D-5 flattruck dozer was included in the
FY 23 Budget and the Solid Waste Divisionis requesting an additional$300,000 to
purchase a high-trackdozer instead. The high-trackdozer was not included in the
budget request because itwas not being manufactured at the time the proposal was
prepared.
Representatives from the Administrationare availableto answer any questions the
Members may have. I respectfullyask for the Members support of this motion.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion? Ifnot.allthose infavorofthe motion, raiseyour hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes";motion carries.One "excused".Member King.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 126
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 177 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO OFFICE OF THE MAYOR,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
SOUTH MAUI ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL
AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 177 (2022) IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bill177.
Discussion on the Rule waiver? Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Members, these funds are for grants to organizations for
projects in the South Maui area. The sooner the amendment is passed, then the
sooner the Office of Economic Development can begin that process of issuing out
those funds.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Ifnot,ailthose in favor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 127
one "excused", Member King. Motion carries.CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes", zero "noes'
Vice, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO PASS BILL 177 (2022) ON FIRST READING.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci,seconded by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, to
pass Bill177 on firstreading.
Member Sinenci, discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yes. Bill177 (2022) would amend the FiscalYear 2023
Budget, Officeofthe Mayor, Economic Development Program, South Maui Economic
Development, Environmental,and CulturalPrograms, to add additional10,000 [sic]in
funding for Fourth Friday events; 6,980 for the Hawaii WildlifeFund for fence
replacement at Kealia Pond for sea turtleprotection;7,000 forthe Maalaea History
Book Extension; $14,000 for the Teran James Young Foundation forconsultingfees
fora South Maui EcoVillage.
We discussed several of these projects during the November 2, 2022, CARE
Committee meeting. No additionalfunds are being added to the budget as partofthis
amendment. Respectfullyrequest the Councilmembers support ofthismotion.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion, raiseyour hand
and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 128
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": Member King. Motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Mahalo.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 178 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE. ROAD IMPROVEMENTS, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 179 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
COUNTYWIDE, COUNTYWIDE FEDERAL AID PROGRAM
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 180 f2Q22)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71. CD1, FD2 (2022), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAU!
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS)
COUNTY CLERK; Continue?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 129
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
ORDINANCE NO,	
BILL NO. 181 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I,
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
(FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION. FEDERAL-AID
AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION GRANTS)
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rav'/lins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 178, 179, 180, AND 181
IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills178, 179, 180, and 181.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the Department recently
received approval from the State Department ofTransportation forthe projectand does
not have sufficienttime forthe procurement process priorto December 31,2022.
Approval of these billsas soon as possible willallow the Department to continue to
move forward on the project.Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Allthose infavor of the motion, raise your hand
and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 130
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now Isee seven "ayes". Member Paltin,you not there, yeah? Seven
"ayes",two "excused". Member Paltin.did you vote? You did? Okay. Eight "ayes",
zero"noes". Yeah, she's inthe distance. You can'tsee her. Eight "ayes",zero "noes";
motion carries.The one "excused" isMember King.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 178, BILL 179. BILL 180, AND BILL 181
ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura to
pass Bills178, 79, 180, 181 on firstreading.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of Bill178,
Bill179, and Bill180 is to amend the Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Appendix C and Bond
Bill,toadd $3,919,000 inbond fundingforthe Department of PublicWorks, Countywide
Federal Aid Program, along with amending the program description to add the
Makawao Avenue Pavement Reconstruction Project,Phase 1.
Bill181 (2022) would amend Appendix A, Part I,to carry over $9,530,000 from the
Fiscal Year 2022 grant under the Department of Public Works for Federal Highway
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 131
Administration, Federal-Aid and Other Transportation Grants. These funds are the
grant revenue for the Federal-Aid project,
reconstruction of existing pavement, replacement of corroded drain lines,and
constructionof safetyimprovements from MP0.8 to High Street.
These funds would be used for
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members may have. I thank them for securing allthese Federal funds for our
infrastructureand roads. I respectfullyask for the Members support of thismotion.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Any more discussion,Members? Ifnot,allthose in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE; So, we have eight"ayes'
King isexcused.
one "excused": motion carries. And that is Member
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 182 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.25.030,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, REU\TING TO HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION FEE
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 183 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2023
BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI AS IT PERTAINS TO
APPENDIX B. REVENUES - FEES. RATES. ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES,
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, SPECIAL REVENUETTRUST AND AGENCY FUND
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 132
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 184 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART li,SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023,
HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED OR DERELICT
VEHICLES REVOLVING FUND
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 182, BILL 183, AND
BILL 184 IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES
OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Councilmember
Sugimura, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills182, 183, and 184.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Members, Act 298 relatingtoVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
registrationof vehicles takes effecton January 1, 2023. Passage of these billstoday
would ensure the County is able to implement these fees on theireffectivedate.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? Allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say
"aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 133
CHAIR LEE; Eight "ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries. Excused is Member
King.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
IMOVE TO PASS BILL 182, BILL 183. AND BILL 184 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bills182, 183, and 184 on firstreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of thisbill,
these billsisto amend Section 3.25.030,Maui County Code, and Appendices A, Part I
and B of the FiscalYear 2023 Budget to increase the fee for U-drive motor vehicles
from $1 to $10, effectiveJanuary 1, 2023; expand the use of the Highway Fund
BeautificationFee to includethe abilityto mitigateand address the impacts of tourism-
relatedtrafficcongestion; and amend the titleof the relevant fund to the "Highway
Beautification,Abandoned Vehicle, and Tourism-related TrafficCongestion" Revolving
Fund.
This fee would be charged when a rentalvehicle is registered,not every time itis
rented. Additional revenues have not been added to the budget as the Administration
does not have any way of knowing how many vehicles need to be registeredbetween
January 1 and June 30. The FiscalYear 2023 Budget included sufficientfunds inthe
Revolving Fund to cover allanticipatedexpenses.
Representatives from the Administration are available to answer any questions the
Members may have. Iask forthe Members support of thismotion. Mahalo, Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 134
CHAIR LEE: Member, thank you. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thankyou. Ihave a question. I'm not sure ifit'sforthe Budget
or for Finance for the DMV. But last time when Iwas inquiringabout tieredregistration,
they said thatthey had no way because it’sbased on the State'sdata forthem to know
when, what vehicles are registeringfor rentalcar companies. So, now they do?
CHAIR LEE: Director Yoshimura, or Director Teruya, are you on the call?
Ms. Yoshimura. Did you hear the question?
I see
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Yes, I did. Councilmember Paltin,so City
and County of Honolulu works with the County of Maui for registrationof vehicles. At
thispoint,we don'tknow how many, we didn'tadd any revenue because we couldn't
determine how many vehicles the rentalcars have that would be registeredbetween
January to June. So, that'ssomething we're going to have to work at when itcomes
to a fullfiscalyear cause rightnow it'sjustthe six months. ItstartsJanuary tillJune 30.
So, whatever iscollectedduring thatperiod willthen be added in the FiscalYear 24
Budget.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And, I mean, when I had asked them, they said they had no
way of determining ifthe registrationwas a rentalvehicle or not. So, how now willthey
determine ifit'sa rentalvehicle registrationinorder to go intothisfund?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: So, when the Highway BeautificationFee was a dollarfor rental
vehicles, they were stillbeing charged $10, and then they would ask for the
reimbursement of the $9, or the,yeah, the $9. And so, that'show they were factoring
who was a rentalvehicle or not. So, the rentalcompanies had to fileforthe refund.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. So, it'skind of likea self-reporttype of thing.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Thankyou.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thankyou.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion,or questions? Ifnot,allthose infavor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 135
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes'
Member King.
one "excused"; motion carries. And the excused is
Madam Clerk.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 185 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
LANAI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA, PARKS AND RECREATION, BOND FUND,
LANAI YOUTH CENTER AND SKATE PARK;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
(BILL NO. 185 (2022) 14/AS REFERRED TO BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
LATER IN THE MEETING,
discussion and action.)
See pages 137 and 138 for
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 186 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
LANAI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
LANAI YOUTH CENTER AND SKATE PARK
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 136
(BILL NO. 186 (2022) IA^/\S REFERRED TO BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
LATER IN THE MEETING,
discussion and action.)
See pages 137 and 138 for
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 187 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394
BILL NO. 71, CD1. FD2 (2022),RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION)
(BILL NO. 187 (2022) \A/AS REFERRED TO BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
LATER IN THE MEETING,
discussion and action.)
See pages 137 and 138 for
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 188, 189, AND BILL 190,
IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Second, okay, moved by Vice-ChairRawlins-Fernandez,seconded by
Member Johnson, to waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills1,you said 88?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 188, 189-
CHAIR LEE: 189 and 190. Ithought itwas 185, 186, and 187?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes. Correct.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 137
CHAIR LEE: 185, 186, 187.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry.
CHAIR LEE: That's what she justread.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Ijumped the gun.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, but you stillwant to waive the Rules of the Council of those three
right?
Okay. So, we have a firstand a second. Discussion on the waiver. Vice-Chair
Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. The Lanai Youth Center bid isgood
for 120 days from the opening, so itwould be validuntilJanuary 8. We would need to
eitherconsider,we would have to take itup soon because the bids willexpire. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand, say "aye".
Okay. Member Paltin?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING .
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused"; Member King. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I,Iwas actuallygoing to take thisto
Committee. I made-
CHAIR LEE: Want to withdraw your motion?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: The waiver? Yeah. Yeah, I do. And I willtake this
up on November 16, Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 138
CHAIR LEE; Member Johnson, you want to withdraw your second, yeah?
Alright,so this,these Bills185, 186, and 187 willbe referredto the BFED Committee.
No objections.Members? Any objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Okay, so now we're on the lastthree. Vice, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, recommended for referralto your Budget, Finance, and Economic
Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 188 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND.
LAHAINA ANTENNA REPLACEMENT;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 189 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
LAHAINA ANTENNA REPLACEMENT
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 139
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 190 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5394,
BILL NO. 71. CD1, FD2 (2022), REU\TING TO THE ISSUANCE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF POLICE)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. No\a/,the motion.
I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILL 188, 189, AND 190, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE RULE. WITH RULE 7.G OF THE
RULES OF THE COUNCIL.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council regarding Bills188, 189, and 190.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, the Department has been
working on the necessary permits and approvals forthisprojectand isready to go out
to bid at the startof 2023 ifthe billsare approved by the end of the calendar year.
Mahalo. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore comments or questions? Allthose in favor of the motion, raiseyour
hand, say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 140
CHAIR LEE: Okay, eight "ayes",zero "noes", one "excused"; motion carries. Excused is
Member King.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
! MOVE TO PASS BILL 188, BILL 189, AND BILL 190 ON FIRST
READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass Bills188, 189, and 190 on firstreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, the purpose of these bills
is to amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget Bill,Appendix C, and the Bond Billto add
$3 millioninadditionalbond funding and a projectdescriptionforDepartment of Police,
Lahaina Antenna Replacement.
This projectwas not included inthe FiscalYear 2023 Budget due tothe possibilitywith
Hawaiian ElectricCompany togain access at Lahainaluna fortheantenna project.The
Department was recentlynotifiedthisoption isno longer availableand they need to
pursue the Makila siteforthe project.The proposed funds willbe used to constructa
communications facility,including a replacement antenna for police radio
communications.
Representatives from the Administrationare availableto answer any questions the
Members may have. Irespectfullyask forthe Members support. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Anymore discussion? Ifnot,allthose infavorof the motion, please raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 141
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",zero "noes",one "excused"; motion carries.Excused isMember
King.
Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Pro Tern Kama.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NO. 170 (2022)
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, thank you, Chair,forthe acknowledgment. Iwould liketo
ask fora reconsiderationplease, of referralto Committee on item M. BillNo. 170. It's
"A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
RELATING TO ESTABLISHING A DIVISION OF GRANTS RESEARCH AND
WRITING UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT".
IfCouncilmember Rawiins-Fernandez would allow me to take thatup inmy Committee
next month.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No objections.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto referringthisitem, Bill170 to the HCP Committee
instead of the BFED Committee?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So. ordered.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Vice-Chair. Thank you, Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Continuing on to billson second and finalreading. Testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,proceeding with testimony on billsfor second and finalreading.
Our firsttestifiersigned up isLisa Paulson. To be followed by Lahela Aiwohi.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 142
MS. LISA PAULSON. MAUI HOTEL AND LODGING ASSOCIATION ftestifvina on Bill
No. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Lisa Paulson,
registeredand paid lobbyistforthe Maui Hotel and Lodging Association. First,I'dlike
to ackno\wledge the Council'stime and hard work on working on Bill159. And we are
infullsupport of Bill159, FD1 in itscurrentform. We are justvery appreciativeof the
collaborationand time thatyou’ve allowed forthis.And thank you forallowingme to
testify.
am a
CHAIR LEE: Any questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you very much.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifieris Lahela Aiwohi. To be followed by Stephen West.
MS. LAHELA AlWOHI. HAWAII HOTEL ALLIANCE [testifyingon Bill No. 159. FD1 (2022)1:
Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and extinguished, distinguished
Councilmembers. Sorry,Ihad to make you guys laugh,right,afterallthese hours of
sittinghere. Anyway, Ido want to make it,you know, reallybrief.I am a registered
lobbyistforthe,and testifyingon behalfofthe Hawaii Hotel Alliance.And Iam testifying
insupport of Bill159. Iactuallywas on Bluejeans thismorning and then rushed down
here when Iheard a number oftestifierstestifyinginopposition of Bill159 from a group
that was included in this,in Bill159.
Ido want to stressthatmaybe about a year ago, Ipersonallyreached out to anybody
who was found on through theirwebsites or on socialmedia. Idid reach out to those
organizations,and not one responded to me when I reached out to them. So, I do
want to put that out there. I think that the time that we've spent with allof you
Councilmembers, thatwas willingto talkto me, myself and the rest of my team, we
reallyappreciate that. And thatwas hard work.
This isn’tsomething that Iknow both partieson eitherside,you know, where we stand
today is not 100 percent satisfied.But I believe that this isthe firststep that we can
take inworking together in resolvinga very highlycontentious and heated issue here
on Maui. Ithink we allagree that we do need to find a betterway in addressing or
bettermanaging tourism. And Ithinkthisisthe firststep forus to get there.
When Idid hear some of the ... for the .. .testifiers,what was a littledissatisfyingto
me, or kind of heartbreaking a littlebitwas hearing some of,a majorityof them testify,
or starttheirtestimony statingthat they'rehappy to callMaui home for "x" number of
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 143
years. Iam born and raised here and I have seen Maui change. Ivery much agree
that we do need to finda way to bettermanage our tourism.
And Hawaii Hotel Alliance,Ijustwant to continue saying this,thatwe want to be part
of that solution. And that we want to be at the table,as we take the steps fonward to
do thatin a bettersystem. So, Imahalo allof you forworking with us. And likeIsaid,
thisisn'tthe best outcome thatwe wanted, you know? But itisa start.
And itis,Ithink,you know. I'llclose. I'llclose reallyquicklythat Ido want to justclose
saying,you know, that Ralph Waldo Emerson said "Progress isthe activitytoday and
the assurance tomorrow". And I think that's the best way thatwe can look at what we
do through thisBill159. So, mahalo, again.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions of the testifier?Ifnot,thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifierisMr. Stephen West. And Mr. West isthe lastperson to be
signed up.
MR. STEPHEN WEST ftestifyingon BillNo. 159 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council Chair Lee and Councilmembers. I'vetestifiedbefore you many times
on many differentissues. One of my passions is transientvacation rentals in our
neighborhood. And 1believethisisthe firststep to addressing that issue. Iwould ask
that,I'mobviouslyinsupport of thisissue,and Iwould likeyou unanimously pass 159.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions,Members? Ifnot,thank you, Mr. West.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,no otherindividualshave signed up to testifyon these items. If
anyone on the callwants to testifyon billsforsecond and finalreading, please identify
yourselfnow. This isthe lastcallfortestimony on these items.
MR. DICK MAYER [testifyingon BillNo. 159. EDI (202211:
Yes, Iwould liketo testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Mayer.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 144
MR. MAYER: Good afternoon,everyone. Long afternoon and Iknow you'retryingto get it
done. Hold up. Let me get,one moment please. Okay. Please ask your attorneys,
I'm speaking on Bill159. Please ask your attorneys ifa violationof the Maui Island
Plan,which ispartofthe Maui County Code, can be legallyoverturned by the adoption
of this ordinance. Itdoes not address the Maui Island Plan Chapter 4, page 4-14. And
thatstatement inthatthere says, "cap the number and type ofvisitoraccommodations
thatcan be permitted". Especiallysince Maui County Code 2.808, oh, SOB, explicitly
statesthatallagencies shallcomply with the General Plan. This law that you're now
considering would not comply with the Maui Island Plan.
On number 2. There are multipleuses of the term "application"in thisordinance. It
has not been defined. This may be particularlyimportantinthe case of projectdistricts
and planned developments. Bill159 would have two major loopholes that willallow
the number of visitor accommodations to increase. Number 1, oops, Ilostmy. ... a
moment, please. Itwillallow for the construction of many more hotel units in such
locationsas the Maui R&T Park, the Krausz town development in Kihei,perhaps the
Kanaha hotel near Costco, the Maui Beach Hotel, and many others that may have
previous vested rights having applied years ago for project districtsor planned
developments.
The second violation of the Maui Island Plan will be the abilityoftimeshare unitsto be
constructed in the hotel district,and a loophole that willallow hotels to be converted
intotimeshare units,which has the potentialtogreatlyreduce the number ofemployees
that hotelsnow hire, Itwould have a major impact on employment of our workers here.
Bill 159 uses a reference to a three-foot rise in ocean levels. This isnot a significant
barriersince no hotel or timeshare, or other visitorunitwould ever consider being built
in such low land. I urge the Council to amend Bill159 with a statement that no
additional hotel rooms, that'sthe word, no additional hotel rooms may be constructed,
no additionaltimeshares may be constructed. And finally,to protectemployee jobs,
no hotelsmay convert to timeshares. Ihope you'llmake those amendments today. I
know you'llhave some in mind.
And finally,with regard to camper vans. State Statute HRS 291C-112 and 113 have a
statement inthere that says, "ordinances regulatethe use of vehiclesforpurposes of
human habitation.Each of the counties may enact and enforce ordinances regulating
the use of vehicles for purposes of human habitation".So, Idon'tthinkyou should
have any qualms about approving the section of thisbillthatdeals with camper vans,
because Ithinkthe State gives the County exactlythat rightto do so, since they'rea
place for habitation,even ifthey'remobile.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 145
And Iv\/antto thank you. And I hope that you'llbe making some adjustments to this
billas itswritten,because Ithink there'ssome realproblems with itrightnow. And I
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Mayer, foryour testimony.
The projectdistrictissue thatyou mentioned came up the other nightfor us. It'smy
understanding thatthere'snothingabout projectdistrictsinthisbill.
MR. MAYER: Theirformer zoning and by not allowing,by not speaking to that issue about
what willhappen inprojectdistricts,it'sa hole inthe billthat needs to be fixed. Because
itwould increase the number of visitor units on the island,which goes directlyagainst
the Maui Island Plan. And that,that'sa big loophole,and we're talking probably
150 unitsinthe R&T Park, another 150 inthe Krausz, and then of course the Wailea,
Grand Wailea, which wants anywhere from 150 to 300--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, 196 atcentralKapalua as well. But Idon't think we can
add thaton second reading.Itmay be fastertojustcreate a new billdirectlyspeaking
to projectdistricts.But you'reright,because thatwas the feedback Igot from residents
inNapilion November 2. But thank you-
MR. MAYER: Yeah, the Kapalua, the Kapalua Mauka is not one, is one I didn'tmention.
Now, Idon'tbelieve,theremay be an opening thereforsome hotelunits. But the ones
I didn't--
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: CentralKapalua. Centra!Kapalua from 1989.
MR. MAYER: But the ones Idid mention in South Maui are significantand Ithinkviolatethe
plan that'swith thiscap. This billdoes a great job of capping certainthings, but it
leaves an opening, especiallythatthreefootlinethingisa useless thingthatyou should
be amending.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Mayer. Thank you. Now, any lastquestions, anybody? ifnot
thank you very much.
MR. MAYER: Thank you, and good luckon the bill.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 146
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Albert Perez.
CHAIR LEE; Perez.
MR. ALBERT PEREZ. MAUI TOMORROW [testifyingon BillNo. 159 (2022)1:
Yes, Chair Lee. Members, aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. PEREZ: So, I'mtestifyingon behalfof Maui Tomorrow today. You know, we realizethis
has been a long road. And thisbillinitscurrentform isnot everythingthatwe wished
for,but we do support it. Itcould be improved, strengthened with a couple of
amendments that 1would liketo suggest.
One isthe language on the sea levelrise,since that is based on models that don't
reallyhave a connection to the realworld. The idea would be to take the shoreline in
the model and take the erosion hazard lineinthe model, figureout what thatdistance
is,and then apply itto a certifiedshoreline,to retaina certifiedshoreline as a basis for
determination of a distance in the real world. I think that would improve the bill.
And I don't think that would be a substantive amendment. As faras the camper vans,
as Mr. Mayer said,the State allowsthe County to regulatethat,specificallyallows that.
So, Idon't think the statement that was unconstitutional was correct. Ifneeded, ifthat
becomes a big issue, 1don't thinkthere'sa lack of consensus. And you know, Ithink
you could justdelete that from thisbillifit'sgoing to be a hold up and take that up
separately. Iwould urge you folksto go ahead and pass thison second reading today.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions? Ifnot,thank you very much. May we have
the next testifier?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair,there'snobody elsethathas indicateda desire to testify.Ifanybody
on the video wants to testify,please make yourself known. This isthe lastcallfor
testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any objectionsto closing oral testimony and accepting written
testimony intothe record?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 147
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so ordered.
Madam Clerk,let’sfinishthisguy up.
COUNTY CLERK; Proceeding with billsforsecond and finalreading.
BILLS - SECOND AND FINAL READING
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 68. CD1 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A NEW CHAPTER 3.97
MAUI COUNTY CODE, CREATING A MANAGED
RETREAT REVOLVING FUND
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. You want to take thisseparate, or how do you
want to do it?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May 1,ifthere are no objections,may
Irequest the Clerk also callup Bill102, Bill155, 156, 157, 158, 161, 163, and 164?
CHAIR LEE: Wow. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No objections.
CHAIR LEE; You're singingour song.
No objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, very good. Proceed please.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 102, CD1. FD1 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.48.305.B,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, PROHIBITING PROPERTIES WITH TRANSIENT
VACATION RENTALS FROM RECEIVING THE HOME EXEMPTION
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 148
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 155 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI, TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION FOR A GRANT UNDER THE HIGHWAY SAFETY
REIMBURSEMENT PROJECT NO. AL23-M-09, ENTITLED "MAUI
COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE - 2023 IMPAIRED DRIVING"
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO.^_L56_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR
OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE OF HAWAII,
FOR THE CAREER CRIMINAL PROSECUTION PROGRAM GRANT 23-CCP-01
COUNTY CLERK: Kala mai,you didn'tsay 157,didyou?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: IfIdidn’t,Imeant to.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 157 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY.
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WATER SUPPLY, WATER FUND - RESTRICTED, WATER FUND - UNRESTRICTED
WEST MAUI RELIABLE CAPACITY;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS {OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 149
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 158 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLY,
WEST MAUI COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
WEST MAUI RELIABLE CAPACITY
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 159. FD1 (20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
(BILL NO. 159, FD2 (2022) IVAS PASSED ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 152
through164 fordiscussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO._16i_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.08.060, MAUI COUNTY
CODE. TO REVISE POSITION TITLES IN THE OFFICE OF COUNCIL SERVICES
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO.__163_(2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2023 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
TOTAL OPERATING APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 150
ORDINANCE NO.	
BILL NO. 164 f20221
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR OF
THE COUNTY OF MAUI TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII SEA GRANT COLLEGE
PROGRAM, REGARDING ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS AND
NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS ATLAS FOR MAUI COUNTY
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 68, CD1 (2022); BILL 102, CD1, FD1;
BILL 155; BILL 156; BILL 157; BILL 158; BILL 161; BILL 163;
AND BILL 164 ON SECOND AND FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
pass the billsas mentioned by the Vice-Chair,on second and finalreading.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bill68, CD1 (2022) willcreate a
Managed Retreat Fund for shoreline safety improvements; remove or relocate
structures;pay for programs or permitting;and leverage funds providing,provided
Federal, State, nonprofit,and for-profitorganizations,and other non-county entitiesin
order to optimize opportunitiesfor shiftingcoastal development inland through the
physical movement of existingstructures.
Bill102, CD1, FD1 will amend Section 3.48.305.B, Maui County Code, to prohibit
propertieswith transientvacation rentalsfrom receivingthe home exemption.
Bill155 (2022) authorizes the Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmentalagreement with
the Department of Transportation, for grants of funds to the Department of the
ProsecutingAttorneyforthe Impaired Drivinggrant inthe amount of$30,742.50.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 151
Bill156 (2022) authorizesthe Mayor toenterintoan intergovernmental agreement with
the Department ofthe AttorneyGeneral,State of Hawaii,fora grantto the Department
of the ProsecutingAttorneyforthe Career CriminalProsecution Program grant inthe
amount of $144,736.
Bill157 (2022)and Bill158 (2022)amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget and Appendix C
to increasethe Estimated Revenues from SpecialAssessments by $10 millionand
from Carryover/Savingsfrom the Water Fund by $7.2 million;appropriate the funds to
the Department ofWater Supply,West Maul Community Plan Area forthe West Maui
ReliableCapacity,and add the projecttothe projectdescription.
Bill161 (2022) amends Section2.08.060,Maui County Code, to replace the position
titleof Budget Committee Analyst with Senior Committee Analyst, and Budget
Committee SecretarywithSeniorCommittee Secretary.
Bill163 (2022) amends the FiscalYear 2023 Budget to increase the Estimated
Revenues for Carryover/Savings from the General Fund by $1,118,516; appropriate
the funds to the Department of Parks and Recreation; and increase equivalent
personnel by 10.0.
And Bill164 (2022) authorizesthe Mayor to enter intoan intergovernmentalagreement
withthe Universityof Hawaii Sea Grant College Program for$500,000 to produce an
environmentally sensitiveareas and nature based solutionsatlas for the County of
Maui. Iask forMembers continued support of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any questionsor discussion? Allthose infa-
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
whole thing one time?
Oh, Ijustwas wondering how we vote? We vote on allthe
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Great. Sorry. Thanks. Thanks forclarifying.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All-
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 152
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ijustwant to commend our Budget
Chair forsomething that'sIhave never seen in 14 years on the Council, one motion,
nine billsand so few words. Istand infullsupport. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay. Anybody else? Alright,allthose infavor of the motion, raiseyour
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA. MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Three, four,five,six,seven, eight. Eight"ayes", one "excused"; motion carries.
Excused isMember King.
Now, the finalitem, Madam Clerk.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL 159. FD1 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Chair. Our Clerk already read thatitem. But
ifyou would likeher to read itagain. I'm also happy to lether read itagain.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, ifshe read itagain,then go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Imean, ifshe read italready,you can go ahead.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 153
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright.Okay. Okay.
I MOVE TO PASS BILL 159, FD1 (2022) ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,to pass
Bill159, FD1 on second and finalreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Okay. Okay. Members, Bill159,
FD1 (2022) amends the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance relating to transient
accommodation caps. Chair, at this time, I would like to re-open County
Communication 22-280.
NO. 22-280 - ALICE L. LEE. COUNCIL CHAIR
(dated October 28, 2022)
Transmittinga proposed amendment to Bill159, FD1 (2022), entitled"A BILL FOR AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE
RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS"
CHAIR LEE: Any objections.Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So, ordered. So, ordered. Do you want the Clerk to bring itup, callitup?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; It'sokay, Chair. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
THE MOTION IS TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.12.020(G)(5) TO
INSERT AFTER THE LAST SENTENCE "THE LIST IS
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 154
INFORMATIONAL ONLY AND IS NOT A CONFIRMATION OF
ZONING OR ALLOWABLE USE. INCLUSION OF A PROPERTY
ON THE LIST DOES NOT ESTABLISH ANY RIGHT TO
OPERATE A TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL UNIT, AND NO
PERSON MAY RELY ON THE LIST TO ESTABLISH THE RIGHT
TO OPERATE AS A TRANSIENT VACATION RENTAL UNIT.
ANY INTERESTED PERSON MUST CONSULT THE
DEPARTMENT WITH RESPECT TO ANY SPECIFIC
PROPERTY'S ABILITY TO OPERATE AS A TRANSIENT
VACATION RENTAL UNIT."
TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.37.010(A) TO DELETE THE
REFERENCE TO CHAPTER 19.20.
TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.52.90(B)(15) TO DELETE
"TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS" AFTER "EXISTING" AND
INSERT "HOTELS."
AMEND SECTION 20 TO INSERT AFTER THE LAST
SENTENCE "COUNTY SPECIAL USE AND CONDITIONAL
PERMITS FOR TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS IN EFFECT
AS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE MAY BE
RENEWED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROVISIONS IN EFFECT
PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE."
AND TO MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-280.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. It'sbeen moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez , and seconded by
Member Sugimura, to approve what was justread by her. Did everybody receive an
Amendment Summary Form that included that information?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes, itwas on the agenda.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, do you have any questions on that,Members? Ifnot,allthose in
favor of the motion, please raiseyour hand and say "aye".
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 155
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes",one "excused": Member King. Motion carries.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo Chair. I have further amendments.
I MOVE TO AMEND SECTION 19.14010 AS, 19.14.010 AS
FOLLOWS:
INSERT "NEW BEFORE "ROOMS OR UNITS.1.
INSERT "LINE SET AT THE DISTANCE FROM THE
CERTIFIED SHORELINE TO THE" PRIOR TO "MAPPED
LINE."
2.
REPLACE "THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
ORDINANCE" WITH "NOVEMBER 4, 2022."
3.
REPLACE "PROPOSED" FROM BEFORE "GROUND
ALTERING ACTIVITY" WITH "PROPOSED" AFTER
"GROUND ALTERING ACTIVITY."
4.
INSERT "MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCE
COMMISSION, WHICH MAY REVIEW AND COMMENT
ON THE POTENTIAL IMPACT TO HISTORIC
PROPERTIES AND CULTURAL RESOURCES TO THE"
BEFORE "STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DIVISION."
5.
AMEND SECTION 19.22.020 AS FOLLOWS:
INSERT "NEW TRANSIENT VACATION RENTALS" AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE SENTENCE.
1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 156
INSERT "LINE SET AT THE DISTANCE FROM THE
CERTIFIED SHORELINE TO THE" BEFORE "MAPPED
LINE."
2.
REPLACE "THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
ORDINANCE" WITH "NOVEMBER 4. 2022."
3.
INSERT "FOR ALL NEW ROOMS OR UNITS ANY
GROUND ALTERING ACTIVITY IN CULTURALLY
SENSITIVE AREAS. AS DETERMINED BY THE
COUNTY ARCHEOLOGIST. WILL BE REFERRED TO
THE MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCE
COMMISSION, WHICH MAY REVIEW AND COMMENT
ON THE POTENTIAL IMPACT TO HISTORIC
PROPERTIES AND CULTURAL RESOURCES TO THE
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION DIVISION UNDER
CHAPTER 6E. HAWAII REVISED STATUTE." AFTER
THE FINAL SENTENCE.
4.
TO AMEND SUBSECTION 19.36B.120(G) AS FOLLOWS:
INSERT "VEHICLES WITH POP-UP TENTS," BEFORE
"OR SIMILAR APPARATUS."
1.
UNLESS SPECIFICALLY PERMITTED2. INSERT
AFTER "PROHIBITED.
AMEND SUBSECTION 19.37.010(C) AS FOLLOWS:
INSERT "LINE SET AT THE DISTANCE FROM THE
CERTIFIED SHORELINE TO THE" BEFORE "MAPPED
LINE."
1.
REPLACE "THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
ORDINANCE" WITH NOVEMBER 4, 2022."
2.
AMEND SUBSECTION 19.52.090(B)(15)AS FOLLOWS:
REPLACE "PROPOSED" FROM BEFORE "GROUND
ALTERING ACTIVITY" WITH "PROPOSED" AFTER
"GROUND ALTERING ACTIVITY." AND FINALLY.
1.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 157
2. INSERT "MAUI COUNTY CULTURAL RESOURCES
COMMISSION, WHICH MAY REVIEW AND COMMENT
ON THE POTENTIAL IMPACT TO HISTORIC
PROPERTIES AND CULTURAL RESOURCES TO THE"
BEFORE "STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DIVISION."
And ni need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Paltin,forthat
additional amendment.
Discussion? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. And everyone should have received
the ASF from the County Clerk at 4:21 p.m., ifanyone did not receive itand was not
followingalong. Okay, and thisadditionallanguage on the mapped linefor coastal
erosion and any ground alteringactivityin culturallysensitiveareas helps to clarify.
And then, adding the "vehicleswith pop-up tents"to the listof apparatuses, that are
prohibitedfrom being used or rented as transientaccommodations . And add a comma,
unless specifiedspecificallypermitted after"prohibition."
These amendments are in response to testimony requesting additionaloversightfor
areas in which iwi may be located, and to clarifythe shoreline certification
requirements. In addition, the Department of Corporation Counsel suggested
additionalamendments to clarifythe camper van language and the date ofthe relevant
shoreline maps.
And Chair, ifit's,ifyou willallow at thistime, may Icallon Mr. Hopper to speak to the
language of the camper van sectiontemporary parking in response to testimony that
we received thismorning. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.Any objections,Members, to inviteMr. Hopper forcomments?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 158
CHAIR LEE; No objections.
Mr. Hopper.
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL MICHAEL HOPPER: Thank you, Chair. For the
camper van language, Ithinkthisissomething we had suggested inan earlierversion,
but itjustdidn'tmake itinthe lastgo around. The pop-up tents language Ithinkadded
clarityand Ithinkwas consistentwith the intentof the prohibition.
There was also language added unless specificallypermitted,to deal with cases where
camper van parking might be permitted eitherin maybe in a State park, or in a case
where our County issues a permit forthat use, so we would allow forthat exception.
So, Ithinkthose were important clarifications.Idon't have much else to add on that.
Ido believe thatthisiswithinthe County's purview. HRS does allow,give the County
some authorityto regulatethe uses ofvehiclesforhuman habitation.So, Ithinkthisis
consistentwith that purpose.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for Mr. Hopper? Anyone? Ifnot,thank you very much.
Oh, yes, we have one. Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Ijustwanted to ask Mr. Hopper about the
lasttestimony about does itviolatethe General Plan of the Maui County, the Maui
Island Plan?
DEPUTY CORPORATION COUNSEL HOPPER: Well, ifit'sin reference to the tourism issue.
Ithink ifyou're allowing propertiesthat are already zoned or entitledfor hotels to,to
build hotels,I don't think that'sinconsistent. Ifyou're talkingabout units that aren't
already,aren'talready entitledor already zoned hotel,Ithinkthat’sdifferent.Ithink
the language thatyour,that'sbeing changed in Ibelieve 19.14 talksabout unitsinthe
hoteldistrict.So, those areas are already zoned hotels.
So, Idon't have an issue with that,that aspect of it,of the hotel unitsin some cases
being allowed to have new hotel units in areas that are already zoned hotel. Ithink,
again, I don't want to put words in the testifier'smouth as faras what they intended,
but my understanding was theirthought was allowing new hotelunitsto be builtinthe
hotel districtin areas where they're already entitledcould be, could be potentially
problematic. And I don't necessarilyagree with that statement. So, as far as this
ordinance, i don't think that that's,the ordinance is inconsistentwith the Maui Island
Plan inthat,inthat respect.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 159
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Mr. Hopper. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: We had so many testifiersfrom the camper vans and
recreational vehicles that testified. So, what is the impact to them with these
amendments?
CHAIR LEE: Who are you asking thatquestionto?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Whoever can answer that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: IthoughtMr. Hopper, but here'sTamara.
CHAIR LEE: How about Member Paltin? You want, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, itmeans that,oh, itmeans that they can stilldo the
activitywhere it'sspecificallypermitted like,you know, the . . .parks where they have
the facilitiesforit.IthinkCamp Olowalu has the facilitiesforit,so where it'sspecifically
allowed to do it,then itcan be done inthose specificareas. The roadsides, people's
neighborhoods where they don'twant people going to the bathroom inthe bushes, no,
no can.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Stillallows State parks. Nationalparks, but County isnot
allowed?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Where it’sspecificallyallowed. You can'tjustgo intoHaleakala
Park and park inthe parking lot.You have to be inthe designated--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Get a permit.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay. So, they can continue on with theirbusiness in
designated areas. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else with questions or comments?
Member Molina.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 160
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. And not for Mr. Hopper, but maybe for our
Vice-Chair. Just clarificationon one of your amendments that was related to,sorry.
I'mjusttryingto pullitup here. Okay, Ithinkthishad to do with the line.Subsection
19.37.010, insert "line set at the distance from the certifiedshoreline to the" before
"mapped line."The rationaleforit,and why itwas changed from the,you know, why
the amendment changed? And does ithave any impacts,unintended consequences,
as you see it,thisamendment ismoved forward?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, go ahead.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Molina, for the
question. As I stated in the rationale,itwas something requested by testifiersinthe
community. So, in working in collaborationwith everyone, that'sthe language that
would help to clarify,to be a clearindicatoron the ground.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. So, thisamendment, I guess, maybe ease people's
feelingsabout the initialproposal as faras where the lineisat or,you know, forwhere
hotelscan be built?But, isthatpartof the rationale?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. Okay, yeah, Ijustneeded some additionalclarification
on that.Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else with questions,or comments? Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, Ijustwanted tothank Member Rawlins-
Fernandez for working with the community in tryingto massage out something that
would be palatable,you know, to everybody and workable . . . And the amount of
hours that ittook forthat. So, thank you so very much, Vice-Chair,appreciatethat.
And also.Member Paltin.Thank you foryour guys hard work.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Are you ready to vote? Second group of amendments. All
those infavor of the motion, raiseyour hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN. SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting ofthe Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 161
CHAIR LEE: Eight "ayes",zero "noes' one "excused": Member King. Motion passes.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, do you have any other changes?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Well, Idon't have any more amendments, but
since everything passed, we'llneed to waive Rule 19.C.
SO. I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL TO ALLOW FOR PASSAGE OF THIS BILL TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama. And
as you know, thishas to do with billsforsecond and finalreading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. So, the waiver of this Rule, because
we made amendments tothe billisnecessary forus to take finalaction. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any comments on, discussion,questions? Ailthose infavor ofthe motion, raise
your hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. AH"ayes", that'seight"ayes'
isVice, isMember King.
one "excused": motion carries. Excused
Ready forthe finalvote? Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Mahalo, Chair. So, I'lltryto keep thisas brief
as Ican, since we're close to our hot hard stop time. I'lljust,thiscaps billis not the
firstbill,nor willitbe the lastto comprehensively manage tourism.
Regular Meeting of the Council ofthe County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 162
This billisjustone ina seriesof legislativeproposals thatwe have worked on and have
passed such as Member Paltin'sbillthatwe justpassed today preventing TVRs from
gettingthe home exemption; keeping fractionalownership timeshares in hotel zones;
requiringTMKs to advertise,requiringTMKs in order to advertise on Airbnb's,VRBOs
and other online platforms; reduce STR and B&B caps in residentialzone areas;
reducing CORA permits or prohibitinginthe Hanakao'o Beach Park. We passed today
the commercial dockless vehicles bill;Member Sinenci's culturaloverlay; my billsto
establisha zero cap, STR cap on Moloka'i;parking for residentsat our beach parks;
taxing transientaccommodations to help offsettouristimpacts to residents; tourism
management and economic development TIG, all of which legislationthat were
proposed thatwe're stillinthe midst of taking up. So, thisCouncil has done a lotof
work in managing tourism and I'm reallyproud of allthe work thatwe’ve done.
This legislationhas been discussed at the Council, at TIG Resolution 22-70 on
March 4; PSLU March 17, March 23; PSLU April22; firstreading; and at last,last
month. So, what this caps billdoes in each zoning that currently allows STR
accommodations that were identified in order to create a cap for each zoning district,
which include the Lahaina Historic District 1 and 2, Apartment District,Business
Country Town, Business District2 and 3, Business Resort, Planned Development,
Hotel, Timeshare.
The transientaccommodation cap billwas draftedto create a point-in-timefreeze on
allcurrentlyallowed STR uses and much needed regulationfor the prohibitionon
camper van vacation rentalson publicproperty. The proposed caps were intended to
keep the number of transientaccommodations status quo. Meaning ifan owner was
operating or had the option to operate as of the date of thisbill'spassage, that use
would be allowed to continue. But afteradoption ofthisbill,no othergrowth or increase
would occur. This approach was taken afterthe advice of legalcounsel to avoid any
potentiallegalchallenges from property owners thatwould claim takings,which could
be very costlyto taxpayers.
I know that decision-making factors,otherwise known as nuance, can sometimes be
challenging because itrequires following items closely over long periods of time to
absorb allthe differentperspectives and how differentinterestswould be affected.A
large part of that nuance also involves rigidlegislativeprocess as mandated by the
Charter and Council Rules and how elections affect legislativework withinthe confines
of two-year terms. Iunderstand investments thatwere made indifferentresorts,and I
get that they are millionsof dollars. And that previous Council majority signaled
automatic support of furtherunfetteredexpansion and new development.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 163
The resort,the recent strong push for tangiblemanagement initiativesis a new
component, and withanythingnew, thereare growing pains. While what Iwould have
wanted, requiringallaccommodations to be capped, an additionalCouncil oversight
through conditionalpermits,which requiresCouncil approval. This has been amended
down sections,thisbillisstillamazing.
And I'mgratefulto allthe people thatworked so hard on itforalmost two years now. I
want to thank allthe Councilmembers and thank the community; thank Maui Tomorrow;
thank the Planning Department, DirectorMcLean, and Deputy DirectorTakakura; and
allthe advocates, as wellas the tourism industryforworking together with us on this,
on something that as the other Councilmembers stated, accomplishes tourism
management and issomething thatwe can pass today. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any furtherdiscussion?
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you. Chair. You know, when Ifirstcame intoofficein
2019, the people Iknew, a lotof them reallydid not likeSTR and short-term rentals
because, you know, a lotof those places on the Minatoya listiswhere they formerly
liveduntilthe codificationof the Minatoya list.And family afterfamily was asked to
leave, because their unit was being turned into a short-term rental. And the
understanding of legal/illega!short-termrental,permitted,on the list,Ididn'thave any
idea ofwhat thatmeant, much lessthe general public.
And then,when we went intothe Tourism Management TIG, we were pouring through
the Code, and we found allthese various districtswhere TVRs or short-term rentals
could just happen with no vetting. They were allowed, you know, hotel use as an
allowed use in the Historic District.
And then,Iwas watching the Planning Commission, a young lady thatlivedinLahaina
Crossroads was saying,you know, there'sillegalTVRs going on in my building. And
the reason thatLahaina Crossroads was bought was because hotel use isan outright
permitted use inthe HistoricDistrict.
And I knew nothing about this in 2018, when I ran for office.And as itcame up on
November 2 and again today, even with us pouring through the Code, and likea little
6-month TIG, we stillyet missed ProjectDistrict.You know, Iwas at a meeting in my
community November 2, where the developer says he's going to develop 196 short
term rentals.And then, I'mgettingcallsand I'm like,shoot. Project District,we didn't
include that inthisbill,you know.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 164
And so, I mean, this is not the end of the work. And whether we willor will not be able
to remove short-term rentalsfrom Project Districts,I'm not sure I'dliketo tryand see,
but itjustgoes to show thatwhen we decided to support tourism and we supported
hotelexpansion, and bringingpeople in marketing Maui, we didn'thave a plan of the
complete visionor when to stop, or when to,when to have the balance.
And Ithinkthe same thinggoes for,forcamper vans, you know. Ifthey stay in the
designated areas that have the resources to accommodate them and they don'ttake
up allthe stallsso that,you know, our localresidentscan enjoy camping as well and
not justthe tourists,it'snot a horriblething. But when there's no plan to regulate,
manage, and malama thatbalance, itturns intoa nightmare.
So, you know, Iagree thisisn'teverythingallthatwe would have wanted, but it'sa step
in the second term. And, you know, what we reallyneed to do is continue the
discussion, not only of management but of diversificationof other types of
management, of using the Maui County TAT to investinthe infrastructureto offsetand
mitigatethe impacts. So, Imean, reallythisis,thisisanother step inthe beginning of
the discussion. It'sdefinitelynot the end of the discussion. And it'snot the only way
to manage tourism. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else? Ready forthe vote? Allthose infavor of the motion
as amended, raiseyour hand, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
CHAIR LEE: Eight"ayes'
Member King.
motion carries. One "excused", and that person isII.
zero noes
Good work everybody. You deserve a restfuland relaxingweekend. Okay, everybody
take care. Iknow Michele Yoshimura isgoing to be happy. How many billsdid we
pass today? Like 20. You're such a cooperative Council, Itellyou. Alright,everybody,
you take care.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
November 4, 2022
Page 165
CHAIR LEE: We'llsee you next Tuesday.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Peaceful weekend, everyone. Aloha.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair? Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo, Members. And mahalo,
DirectorYoshimura, forlettingus go a littlepast the hard stop of4:30. I,thisisthe last
Council meeting that my chief strategistSarah Pajimola willbe with us. And so, I
should have added her to the list.She reallyworked hard on allthe legislationthat I
was able to get through inthe lasttwo terms. So, yeah, mahalo. Chair, for lettingme
publiclythank Ms. Sarah Pajimola forallher work.
CHAIR LEE: I think we allappreciate what she's done, and that'swhy we're planning a
surprise party for her.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: It'snot a surpriseanymore.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, everybody, take care. Take care ofyour familiesand yourselves. Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha, Sarah.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you. Have a great weekend.
CHAIR LEE: You too, Michele.
ADJOURNMENT
The regularmeeting of November 4, 2022, was adjourned by the Chair at 4:47 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
221104/lks;jm
Count^£leHc .7mRECi
im KOV-3 AH 8:19
FrankLopez <kuleanacampersmaui@gmail.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 7:59AM
County Clerk
WE DO NOT SUPPORT BILL 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
●jFrlGE OF THE
gouhty clerk
You don'toftengetemailfrom kuleanacampersmaui@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
My name isFrank Lopez,
Iam a proud LocalMaui resident.Iam alsoone of the many smallbusinessowners thatwillbe
negativelyimpacted by the implementation of Bill159. My businessKuleanaCampers Maui LLC,has
been a part of the Maui community for4 years.In our yearsof servingthe community we have created
a localecosystem of commerce thatnot only keeps my familygainfullyemployed,itprovidesa sourceof
income to our full-timeand part-timeemployees, italsoprovidesconsistentbusinessto our suppliers
KiheiAuto Sales,Maui Toyota,Jim FalkMotors and our referralsMaui Auto Care,Papas Car Wash, Maui
Express Lube, Ocean EpicWeb design,Maui Express Car Wash, our associatesand colleagueswhich are
also small businesses owned by proud Local Maui residents.Beyond a source of income, thisecosystem
providesa sense of securityand hope forthe futureforallour families.Implementing Bill159 means
takingaway income from at least100 familieson the island.Inthese tough economic times,you are
forciblytakingaway the bread we share with dozens of LocalMaui familiesand redirectingitto big
corporations.Thisgoes againstevery principlewithinour cultureand the corevaluesof our beloved
island.As you can see,we are here as a united frontto defend our respectivelegaciesand our rightsto
socialequity within the island'stourism industry.
Warmest Aloha,
Frank and KristenLopez
Kuleana Campers Maui
Frank and KristenLopez
@KuleanacamDersmaui
1
https://mauicamDinQkuleana.com/
? I '8 £- VOHm
»w' 1 ’! »'
^y'dJO YTUUO.
\ 2
I
Count^CleH<
FrankLopez <kuleanacampersmaui@gmail.com>
Tuesday,November 1,2022 1:19PM
County Clerk
BILL 159
From:
Sent: MNOV-i PH 1=54
To:
Subject: ●●Jrr ICE OF 'ihi:
COUNTY CLERK
I You don’toftengetemailfrom kuleanacampersmaui@gmail.com. learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
My name isFrank Lopez.My wife Kristenand Iown Kuleana Campers Maui.
As a localresident and business owner in Maui County operatinga campervan rentalbusiness,Iwish tovoice
my oppositionto the amended language In section 19.36B.120 ofthe proposed Bill159.
Camping provides a way to connect touristswiththe land.We operateour businesseswiththe utmostcareto
the duty we have as stewards to the islandwe too callhome. We adviseallofour gueststogo tolegal
campgrounds. We collectand pay the appropriatetaxes.We are insuredand registeredbusinessowners in
good standingwiththe DCCA. We spend considerabletimeand money maintainingourvehiclesso theyaren’t
an eyesore. We educate our guests on how to respectthe islandand itspeople.The dollarsourguestsspend
stays inour localeconomy as we use localrepairshops, hirelocalemployees,and promote otherMaui-owned
businesses to our travelers(restaurants,other tour operators,locallyowned campgrounds likeCamp Olowalu,
etc).Our business isour livelihood.
Iwritethistestimonyto urge Maui County Council toconsiderprovidingmore timetodiscussthiscomplicated
matter.We, and many operators likeus,willbe providingpublictestimonyatyour nextmeeting and hope that
we’llbe given the opportunityto work collaborativelytowards a resolutionthatsupportsour localeconomy
while addressing the concerns of constituentsand Council Members. We are committed community members
and entrepreneurs and hope to be a partofthe solutionand notthe problem.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Frank & KristenLopez
Kuleana Campers Maui LLC
0"
Kuleana Campers Maui
Frank and KristenLopez
(g)Kuleanacampersmaui
https://mauicamDinQkuleana.com/
1
County Clerk R6Cte.i.
im OCT31 PH12=22Dina Cline <dina@zazucampers.com>
Monday, October 31, 2022 11:15 AM
County Clerk
Malia King;Tim Pang; Spencer Wright
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc: Qr^-ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom dina@2a2ucampers.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a localresidentand business owner in Maui County operating a campervan rentalbusiness, iwish to voice
my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of the proposed Bill159.
Camping provides a way to connect touristswith the land.We operate our businesses with the utmost care to
the duty we have as stewards to the islandwe too callhome. We advise allof our guests to go to legal
campgrounds. We collectand pay the appropriatetaxes.We are insured and registeredbusiness owners in
good standingwiththe DCCA. We spend considerabletime and money maintainingour vehiclesso they aren’t
an eyesore. We educate our guests on how to respect the islandand itspeople.The dollarsour guests spend
stays inour localeconomy as we use localrepairshops, hirelocalemployees, and promote other Maui-owned
businesses to our travelers(restaurants,othertouroperators,locallyowned campgrounds likeCamp Olowalu,
etc).Our business isour livelihood.
Iwritethistestimony to urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated
matter.We, and many operators likeus,willbe providingpublictestimonyatyour next meeting and hope that
we’llbe given the opportunityto work collaborativelytowards a resolutionthatsupports our localeconomy
while addressing the concerns of constituentsand Council Members. We are committed community members
and entrepreneurs and hope to be a part of the solutionand not the problem.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Dina Cline
Dina Cline
COO
808-683-5506
Zazucampers.com
1
RECiliVEDCounty Clerk
im NOV -2 PH 2-‘NOTiarelawrence <tiare4maui@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 2:29 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
[You don'toften get email from tiare4maui(5)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha
Iam instrong support of Bill159 to regulatethe camper van industry.As a lifelong residentof Maui Iam frustratedand
overwhelmed with over tourism. Residents are inundated with tourism everyday and now we findvisitorssleepingon
our publicbeaches illegally.Please support bill159.
Mahalo
Tiare Lawrence
Sent from my iPhone
1
--s.
MAALAEAof H a wa i‘iThe Aquarium
MAUI OGEAN CENTER
is proud to cosponsor
maAlaea
THE UNTOLD STORY OF MAUI'S HISTORICCROSSROADS
Dive ifTtoThecaptivatingtaleof Maui’shtstoriccrossroads
Ma'alaeaVillage.Discoverhow thisareashaped the island’srichhistoryin
ancienttimes,understanditsculturalsignificancethroughout the years.
and learnthe importance of Ma'alaea today.
Since itscreation in 1998, Maui Ocean Center has become a Ma'alaea
landmark, inspiringvisitorsthrough expert ocean education,mesmerizing
marine life,and Hawaiian culturalsense of place.Learn to livewith Ocean
Aloha, and conserve Hawaii’s marine lifeto buildupon Ma'alaea'srich
historyand fascinatingstoriesforfuturegenerations.
LUCIENNEDENAIE
WITHRITAGOLDMAN
Count^Clerk KbC..:vbUFrom:
Sent:
MICHAEL SCHAEFER <michael.schaefer21@gmaii.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 10:25 AM
County Clerk
CR22-117 BILL 151, CD1 FIRST READING
mi OCT 31 AH «> 31To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toften get email from michael.schaefer21@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
TO: MEMBERSOFTHE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
Thank you forthisopportunityto providewrittentestimony inconnectionwith the FirstReading of the referencedBillat
your meeting on November 4, 2022.
Ithink 1speak formany non-resident property owners in Maui whose interestshave not been represented or
acknowledged inthe formulationof thisplan.
Ihave visitedMaui annuallyformore than 30 years.About 10 yearsago, Ipurchased a smallcondo inKiheias my
retirement home. Since Iam in residence only 5-6 months each year,Icontinueto use my out-of-statedriver'slicense.
But, Ihave owned a carforseveralyears that isregisteredto my Kiheiaddress.Of course,Ipay the not-insubstantial
vehicleregistrationfees,as required.Inaddition,because my condo isnot leasedIpay the highestpropertytax
rate...significantlyhigher than most residenthomeowners. Moreover, Isupportthe localeconomy, smallbusinesses,
restaurants,culturalorganizations,etc.
As Isaidat the outset,Ibelievethere are many people inthesame position.We own realproperty,vehicles,pay high
property taxes and we support Maui's economy. Ibelievethatwe shouldreceivethesame priviiegeoffreeparkingat
the publicbeaches that isbeing offered to year round residents.I'mhopefulthatthisoversightwiilbe addressedinthis
FirstReading and corrected.
Mahaio Nui,
Michael Schaefer
23 0neHaliLn- 8-203
Kihei,HI 96753
1
Count^Clerk PPP
From:
Sent:
FrancineAarona <mopsaarona@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 6:23 AM
County Clerk
Re: Bill159/Testimony
mi NOV -3 AH 8= 19
To;
Ot-nCE OF THE
fJOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom mopsaarona@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
On Wed, Nov 2, 2022 at 10:13 PM Francine Aarona <mopsaarona@gmai l.com> wrote:
Aloha Chair Lee, VC Rawlins and Council members.
Mahalo forallthatyou do forour people of Maui. Many of your residentshave expressed theirfrustrationof over
tourism. Itishard to please everyone but we need to take bold steps increatinga peaceful living.
Iam infullsupport of bill159. 1have seen with my own eyes car renters and van renters pick theirvehicle up at Longs
Maui Mall. Enough isenough.
Pleasesupport Bill159, along with amending the ordinance relatingto transientaccommodation cap.
Mahalo foralways allowingme to share my mana'o with you.
Aunty Mopsy
1
RECCount^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Destyn Ah Yee-Dudoit <destyn0315@gmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 2:41 PM
County Clerk
tpang03@gmail.com
Bill 159
20Z2OCT3I PH2^4il
To:
OFFICE
COUNTY CLERK
●-
\jrCc:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom destyn0315@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large,Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Destyn Ah Yee-Dudoit
1
RECESVED
Count^Clerk
mi NOV -2 PH 2- NOFrom:
Sent:
Serena Alexander <serena@islandwaytech.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 2:30 PM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
OFFICE OF THE
GOUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom serena@islandwaytech.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
Iam contactingyou about Bill159 and the regulationof camper vans.
Iam instrongsupport of Bill159 and stronglyurge our councilto pass thisbillintolaw.As a kanaka maoli and born and
raisedMaui resident,itisdishearteningto see the influxof touristsand the waste they bringto the beach. My 'ohana
and Ican'teven enjoy our beaches we once did because of not wanting to deal with the stench and fecalmatter that
litterthe shores.
We have campgrounds that can be utilizedbut those who rent these vans out do not do theirdue diligenceto make sure
theirrentersare followingour currentlaws.That,to me, isgross negligence and needs to be dealtwith swiftly,
Again, Istronglyurge our councilto pass thisbillinto law to regulatethese campervan businesses.
Mahalo,
Serena Alexander
President
IslandWay Technology
Phone: (808)460-8222
Email:serena@islandwaytech.com
1
Count^Cletjc
received
ZD??NOV-2 AH 9:ON
From:
Sent:
KELII ARRUDA <ohana3@aol.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 7:58 PM
County Clerk
Bill 152
To:
Subject:
tiFFICE OF THE
COUWTY CLERK(You don'toften get email from ohana3(S)aol.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
To whom itmay concern:
I'm sending thisemail to show my support of bill152. My family & Ifeelitwillbe good forthe people of Maul.
Mahalo
Keli'iArruda
341 Komo Mai St.
Lahaina, HI 96761
Sent from my iPhone
1
County Clerk \ /
£H
From:
Sent:
KarriAyasanonda <karrija@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 6:07 PM
County Clerk
Support Bill159
ZflZZNOV-3 AH 8M8
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Aloha Maui County CouncilMembers,
Iam writinginsupport of Bill159. Over the past many years tourism has grown to a fartoo high number of visitorson
Maui at any given time. Maui isbeing taken advantage of by budget visitorsand residentswho are lookingto cash in on
making a profiton thisovertourism. Maui desperatelyneeds strictregulationwhen itcomes to commercial activity
acrossthe island,especiallyat beach parks. People are moving to Maui justto starta "business"of rentingcars or
camper vans, many have littleto no regard for the environment or community on Maui. The beaches and beach parks
on the west sideare litterednightlywith camper vans from the Paliup to Wahikuli. Ithas become a trend to stay in
campers, despitethere being no restroom facilities,or proper rubbish receptacles,and many are doing so for
free.Some campers are even stayinginneighborhoods. Maui residentsrecentlyhave not been able to camp due to
campgrounds being booked up. Maui county should lookto what best serves the community, not the individual
campervan owner, or visitorwho wants a cheap vacation. Ithas become so thatwe cannot affordto liveon Maui nor
can we enjoy much of Maui anymore due to over tourism,over commercialism, and overdevelopment. Please support
Bill159. Pleaseregulatecommercial activityacrossMaui.
Sincerely,
KarriAyasanonda
Lahaina, Hawaii
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
CamilleBarcoma <cami96753@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 3:02 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 support
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftengetemailfrom cami96753@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.m5/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha to whom itmay concern,
My name isCamille Barcoma, from Kihei,and iam insupport of Bill159.
Our beaches are alreadycrowded with enough people livingon Maui, and camper van business owners need to accept
that the beaches are for residents and visitors to enjoy. Not to make a business out of our beautifulnaturalresources
that Maui has to offer.
Iwork at Matson and see allthe rentalvehicles/campers/jeepsthat are coming in.Iremember when Istarted22 years
ago that RV's we're not allowed because we didn'thave RV parks.Over the pastyears Ihave seen numerous RV's,
campers, and vans remodeled forcamping come in.
it'sgettingout of control.
Q-n
C31 mC3
Mahalo, Camille Barcoma
Wharf clerk at Matson
Pier 1, Kahului Harbor
OI
mro
-<
O <C'3O -n
pn
:x3X
7;n\
mr
O
1
Count^Clerk RuCuiVCD
Kaipo Bee <poola1056@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, October 26, 2022 7:52 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent: im OCT 31 AH 9^ 15
To:
Subject: Oi-nCE OF THE
COUNTY GLERK
[You don’toftenget emailfrom poolal056@yahoo.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha, my name isKaipo Bee and Iwriteto you instrongopposition of Bill159 as iswritten.However Isupport the Bill
with the amendments proposed inthe draftBillsubmitted by the Hawai'l Hotel Alliance.
Mahalo foryour consideration,
Kaipo Bee
1
Count^£lerk nCOrivCD
Berkey,Angela <Angela.Berkey@ritzcarlton.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 4:49 PM
County Clerk
Berkey,Angela
Written Testimony Bill159
From:
Sent: ?0?2NOV AH & 17
To:
Cc:
^:rF}CE OF THE
BOUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don’toftenget emailfrom angela.berkey@ritzcarlton.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iwant to thank everyone fortakingthe time to voiceyour opinionsand listento each other.
My name isAngela Berkey, 15 year residentofWest Maui and 15 year hotelemployee.
Hotels provide so much more than what isseen...and can continue to do so within this
community. Iwillspeak to justa few ofthese items but want to say Iam in support ofthe billas
amended a few weeks ago,Bill159 FD 1 (2022]
My husband grew up in Southern California,had a tough upbringing,was headed down the
wrong path forhis future.
His mom sent him here to live with his auntie and he discovered the hospitalityindustryand it
changed hislife
Iwas working in corporate America in Boston more than 15 years ago...600 ofus lostour job ina
merger/acquisition.
Icame to Maui to visitmy semi retiredparents,met my now husband, found the hospitality
industryand rebuiltmy career.
We both found a home inthisindustrybecause itisan acceptingindustryofallbackgrounds,
ethnicities,and cultures.
We provide for our ourselves,our families,we help our friendsand neighbors...we support our
localcommunity businesses.
The one element ofmy current responsibilitythat1enjoy most isassistingthe community...
charitywalk, relayforlife,kupuna dinners,islandcleanup efforts,and providingmentorship and
guidance forthe next generationon Maui County. My colleaguesand Ihave volunteeredat
severalWest Maui schoolsover the years and look forward to continuingthattradition.
Our guests and owners oftenparticipatewith us!Givingback...the alohaspiritthatwe getto
share within our own community.
The potentialimpact on thistransientaccommodation cap isso much greater...
Potentiallyeliminatingjobs willlimitthese"extra"thingswe alldo forour community and
opportunities for our current and next generation.
The tax dollarcomponent alone would be a heavy impact on the community.
1
Pleasetake intoconsiderationthe largerand long term consequences. We support the billas itis
referredto now as Bill159, FD 1 [2022].
Mahalo foryour time and consideration.
Angie Berkey
Directorof Learning
The Ritz-CarltonMaui. Kapalua
One RitzCarlton Drive,Lahaina, HI 96761
D: 1-808-665-7034
M: 1-808-264-6080
F: 1-808-665-7020
angela.berkey@ritzcarlton.com
ritzcarlton.com/maui
CONNECT WITH US;
Facebook |Instaaram |Twitter|Linkedin |TripAdvisor
THE RITZ-CARLTON
UAUUKAMLUA
USTOREYOUtSEXFTDTHEWILD
2
County Clerk
K h:U tr;h DFrom:
Sent:
Billor Bobbie Best <bestb002(o)hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 5:31 AM
County Clerk
We support amended versionof Bill159
im NOV -3 AM 8^ 18To:
Subject:
OFFICE CF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Mahalo forconsideringour input
Bill& Bobbie Best,residentsof 50 years
280 Hauoli
808-242-9119
1
November 1, 2022
Councilmember KellyKing and CARE Committee Members,
South Maui Economic Development, Environmental and CulturalPrograms (CARE-1(17))
FUNDING INCREASE, G5252 MAALAEA HISTORY BOOK
RE:
Aloha ChairKing and CARE Committee Members:
Maalaea VillageAssociation(MVA) ispleased to reportthat the book on Maalaea historynow entitled:
Ma*alaea: The Untold Story of Maui's Historic Crossroads funded by OED Culturaland Environmental programs
isalmost ready forpublication!(Ihave attached our book cover designed by Maui artistCynthia Conrad.)
Briefly,the idea of publishinga book documenting the historyof thishistoricislandcrossroads was inspiredby a
power point presentation on Ma'alaea historyby Ms. Lucienne de Naie at MVA's January 2020 annual meeting.
We anticipatedthisbook to be completed inone year,but littledid we know the challengesMaui County, the
State and the World would face when the COVID pandemic hitin March 2020. Not being able to meet in person
or conduct in person interviewswas a challenge forthe book team—author Lucienne de Naie,editorRita
Goldman and graphic designer Patt Narrowe-- but they persevered.MVA PresidentLyndon Ibeleand Immediate
Past President Lynn Brittonhave donated theirtime managing the projectand providingOED quarterlyreports.
The initialproposalof$20,000 {MVA-$5,000 cash,$15,000-OED, and approximately$4,900 in"inkind")was for
a 128 page "picturebook." Ms. de Naie'sdirectpersonal involvement in Ma'alaea events and knowledge of
Ma'alaea'sand Maui history,combined with her extensiveresearchinthe Maui News archivesat the University
of Hawaii Maui CollegeLibraryuncovered storiesand archivalinformationthatfew knew existed.Her contacts
with current and former Ma'alaea residents added interest and richness.
The result?A trulyspectacular192-page full-colorbook. Sam Boyd, our book indexerinOregon recentlywrote:
"Being immersed inthishistoryfora week has filledme with respectforallof you. Ifeelprivilegedto be
partof your missionto clarifythe events of the pastso thatthisknowledge can inform futuremembers
of your community. It'san important book and Idesigned the indexto helpithave maximum impact."
We're nearingthe end of the journey.MVA "cash" donations have more than doubled, "inkind"now totalsover
$17,000 and printingand shippingcostshave increaseddue to increasein page sizeand fullcolorcosts.The
book team has alreadydonated considerabletime to the projectbeyond was budgeted fora 128-page book.
To finishthe project,we seek an additional$7,000 from South Maui Economic Development, Environmental and
CulturalPrograms to compensate the book team and meet additionalprintand shippingcosts.
Mahalo foryour continued support!
Lynn Britton,MVA Immediate Past President
Count^Clerk
mi NOV -1 PH 6= 19John Brown <aapmaui@gmail.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 5:42 PM
County Clerk
Bill152
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom aapmaui@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
I'm sending thisemail to support Bill152.1 feelthisbillisimportant to the future of Maui County.
Mahalo,
John Brown
VPII North America AANC
Aloha Aina Party
808-344-1977
www.voteaioha.org
1
a lyJUJ!COUNTYFARM BUREAU
recf:ived
Z0Z?NOV-I AH 8:07
Nov 1,2022 OFRCc OF TIME
■:OUNTY CLERK
P() liox14S.Kula.Ill9f>790
mauicounntarniburcau.org
Chair Shane Sinenci
Maui County Council
Agricultureand PublicTrust CommitteeExecutive Director
Warren K. Watanabc
Re: Bill 160 "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 22.04A, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO KULA AGRICULTURAL PARK PHASE I
EXPANSION AREA"
Board of Directors:
President
Kyle Caircs Chair Sinenci and Members of the Committee
Vice President
JoshuaSliylohStafford-Jones
Maui County Farm Bureau on behalfof our farm and ranchfamiliesand organizations
supports with suggested amendments, Bill160 amending Chapter 22.04A, Maui County
Code, relatingto theexpansionareaof theKula AgriculturalPark.
Secretary
JaysonWatts Phase 1 of theexpansionprovidesan opportunityforexpansionof agriculturalproduction
on Maui. The park’slocationsuitsa varietyof cropswith long-standingproductionhistory
in Maui County, and its’adjacencyto theUniversityof Hawaii FieldExperiment Station
helpsensuretheavailabilityof technicalresourcesand contentareaexpertiseforthenew
farm tenants.
Treasurer
Tim Stc\'ens
Directors:
We ask for reconsideration of a few items/matters.
Scope of Ag Park: Amending scope of Park to includeallforms of agriculture.
Agriculture’sstrengthisindiversitytomeet a rangeof consumer choices.Farm
Bureau has long supportedthemyriad of agriculturaltypesand practicesand we
believethePark shouldalsoprovidesuch an opportunity.Discussionswith thelocal
SWCD officeshould be the firststepto identifybestmapping forconventionaland
organicagriculturalpracticestoco-existand minimize futureconflictbetween farmers.
Rodrigo“Rudy” Balahi 1)
Brendan Balthazar
James “Kimo” Falconer
Bobbie Patnode
Committee make up: Reconsiderationof a GoFarm position.GoFarm ispartofthe
Universityof Hawaii - CTAHR thatalreadyhas a positionon thecommittee. CTAHR
has an extensivenetwork of educationoutreachprograms;GoFarm isone ofthem.
2)Teena Rasmussen
Heidi Watanabe
While thecurrentapplicationform requiresa Soiland Water Conservationpractice
plan includedwithinthe farm plan,an areawideConservationPlan shouldbe
undertakenby theCounty duringits’designand engineeringphase,priortoplot
allocations.Proximityof organicfarms relativetotraditionalpracticesmust be
considered.Good planningwillsupportbestopportunitiesforsuccessofallfarmersat
thisnew Ag Park formany years to come.
3)
Section22.14A.085.This proposalprioritizesfood productionover othercrops.Food
Securityalsoinvolvesplantingofnon-foodcrops.
Crop rotationisa criticalpracticeto improvingsoilhealth,optimizenutrient
management of soil,and limittheemergence ofpests,weeds and plantdiseases.
4)
a.
>‘t:
V' ■ f
This practiceofteninvolvesplantingof non-food species(suchas covercrops)
to encourage populationsof pollinatorsand supportbeneficialinsectsto combat
farm pests.These non-food crops can alsobe terminatedto buildsoilhealth
using severalpractices,sold as feedstuffsforsupplementalincome, or tilled
intothe ground as a green manure crop.Cover crops increasesoilorganic
matterhelpingto raisesoilmoistureholdingcapacityallowingfarmersto
improve theirdroughtresiliencyprospects.Taken together,thesepracticeswill
help reduce the need for chemical inputsto controlpestpressures,reduce
coststo theproducer, and improve overallproduction efifciency.
i. We urge thedeletionof thispriorityto allow implementationof
integratedpestmanagement practicesand cover cropping to supportthe
viabilityof allfarmers (organic and conventional)
b. Cover crop seed productionisa significantopportunityfor farmersto add
income, buildlocalcapacityforgeneticresourcesand limitnovel invasive
species.As our farmersconsidercovercrop optionsto improve soilhealth,
accessto seed has been an issueformany years.Major seed producers inthe
continentalUSA regularlyempty theirwarehouses inpreparationforthe next
season, oftenat a time when the localdemand forthose seeds in Hawaii are
highest.Buildingthecapacityforlocalcover cropseedstockscan help address
thisshortfall,while alsominimizing seed purityissues,and risksthatprovide
avenues forthe introductionof invasivespecieswith imported seed.
c. Importationof non-food nurseryplantsand otherornamentals isa major source
of invasivespeciesthatnotonly impacttheenvironmentbut food production.
Local productionof highlydesirablefoliagee.g.Myrtaceaespp demanded by
floristsforsupportingwedding venues (brides)withinMaui county presentsan
importantstepto protectingus from introductionof Ohia Rust speciessuch as
Austropuccinia(formerlyPuccinia)psidii,and othernovel fungalpathogens
thatmay be presenton importedplantmaterialsthatcould be detrimentalto our
native forests.
We appreciatethisopportunitytovoiceour opinionon thisexcitingopportunityfor
agricultureon Maui. Ifthereareany questions,pleasecontactreach out to me, or contact
Warren Watanabe at 808-281-9718.
Mahalo foryour consideration.
^yle Caires
President. MCFB
County Clerk
TTUTvmj
From:
Sent:
Healoha Carmichael <keaunoholani@idoud.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 7:55 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
2022NOV-3 AH 8: IaTo:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
CGUNtV CLERK
[You don'toften get email from keaunoholani@icloud.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha iam a residentof the Keanae Wailua Nui ahupua'a koolau moku. Iam instrongsupport of Bill159 to regulatethe
crazy amount of trafficfrom the camper van industry.As a lifelong residentof Maui especiallyof ruraleast Maui it's
very frustratingdealingwith these campers on a daily.For one when we want to camp we get turned in policecome and
get us out saying we need permits so why do these vans, truckssuvs get to do it?We regulateon our own sayingnicely
we can'tdo itso can'tyou please leavefindthe nearest state park that allows camping. Biggestissueisthere no
restroom facilitiesforthese campers or trashcollectingareas so now we have them usingthe restroom wherever and
dumping rubbishwho knows where! Ihave had multiplepeople pullup in my yard lateat nightblaringtheirhorn
because Ihave a bigyard askingifthey can park and stay.Our house lessget kicked out of areas forsleepingintheircar
so why should these camper vehiclesget to pullup and sleep wherever they want. Iask you to please support Bill159
keep campers from sleepingin our communities and trashingour Aina Ipay rentto have a roofover my head visitors
can pay to rent a hotel with proper accommodations mahalo nui Healoha Carmichael
1
County Clerk 9Frrr/Fn
KahokumalamaCarmichael<kahokumalama@gmaiLc^^Piy py - »|-
Thursday,November3,20224:52PM M NuV-J Vn >
County Clerk
Bill159 Testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: epf ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don'toftenget emailfrom kahokumalama@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha!
As a descendant and current resident of Ke'anae, Maui, Istronglysupport Bill159 to regulatethe camper van industry!
Firstof all,it'snot fairthat these touristcome here and are ableto sleepintheirvehicles,while it'sillegalforus or
homelessness to do sol Secondly,ifthey have money to flyhere,then they should have money to stay at a hotel.
Thirdly,it'snot rightthat,we as residentscan'teven camp inour own community while they want to allow touristto
sleep intheirvehicle!Lastly,Iextremely fee!uncomfortable and unsafe when theirare touristssleepingacrossmy
house! These are my reasons why Ithinkyou should support Bill159! Think of us residentsbefore these tourists!
Mahalo, Kahokumalama Carmichael
1
Count^ClerJ<
Aaron Caulford <acaulford@yahoo.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 T0;32 PM
County Clerk
Camper jeeps
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom acaulford@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciatethe
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matterwith these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely,Aaron Caulford
1
Count^CleH< RT
From:
Sent:
Nalani Cauiford <nalasnace@yahoo.com>
Monday, October 31, 2022 2:43 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
2K?0CT3I PHTo:
Subject:
'»r’r IC£ OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom nalasnace@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, born and raisedand stillcurrentlyresiding,Iwish to voice my oppositionto the
amended language insection 19.36B.120 of of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This
billwould negativelyimpact our community and small businesses. We support the responsible camper
companies here on islandand appreciatethe economic value they bringto Maui.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!Please contact me ifyou need to.
Sincerely.
Nalani Cauiford
Counselor, Maui High School
808-870-9390
Smile,it'scontagious.(§)
1
oxpodia group RECEiVED
mi HOV-3 AH 8:58
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 3, 2022
Dear Chair Lee and Members of Maui County Council,
On behalf of Expedia Group, a family of brands that includes Expedia.com,
Hotels.com, and short-term rental leader Vrbo, Iam writing to share testimony on Bill159
FD1, a billamending the comprehensive zoning ordinance relatingto transient
accommodation caps.
We appreciate the thoughtful discussion regarding the billlastmonth and applaud
changes Council made to clarifythat existingtransientvacation rentals(TVRs) may
continue to operate and to ensure existingTVRs may reconstruct and renovate so long
as no additional bedrooms or units are added. These inclusionsare important to ensure
that existingtransientvacation rentalsthat many familiesand small businesses relyupon
may continue to operate.
We urge you to ensure the finallegislationprotects vested rightsto continue existinguse
for transient vacation rentals and to take additional time to review any additional
changes that could jeopardize existingunits.
As Maui County continues to consider legislationaddressing the future of tourism,we
look forward to being a partner incraftingbalanced legislation.As we noted last
month, Expedia Group firmlysupports effortsto responsiblymanage tourism and has
worked with municipalitiesaround the world to craft,enact, and support regulations
and legislationto stabilizethe tourism ecosystem.
Thank you forthe opportunity to share testimony on Bill159 FDl and for considering our
comments.
Thank you,
Mackenzie Chase
Government AffairsManager, Hawai'i
nil Expedia Group Way West | Seattle, WA, 98119 | USA | T +1 206 481 7200[ F +1 206 481 7240
expediagroup.com
County Clerk
Donald Dudoit <kekaulike2005@gmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 3:25 PM
AliceL Lee;County Clerk
tpang03@gmail.com; Donald Dudoit
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
From:
Sent: 20??OCT 31 PH 3^ 26
To:
Cc:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I Some people who receivedthismessage don'toftenget emailfrom kekaulike2005@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council Chair Lee,
As a residentof Maui County and of your District,Iwish tovoice my oppositiontothe amended language in
section 19.36B.120 of of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negatively
impact our community and small businesses.We support the responsible camper companies here on island
and appreciatethe economic value they bringto Maui. We as kanaka trulybelieveincreatinglocaland
supporting local.This billwillhave a tremendous impact on what Maui County should pridethemself on.
Supporting Local.Some of these companies are locallycreated with the mindset of a localand the resources
to provide theircustomers the informationon supporting local.Without these companies and theirlocally
provided resources, some of our littlemom and pops shops wouldn'tget the attractionitdoes today.As the
son of a small business owner, these companies allow visitorsto go out and explore allof Maui and not just
withinthe boundaries of theirhotelwhere they would only contributeto the pockets of a corporate company.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter withthese
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Donald Dudoit III
1
Count^Cjerk received
lindyduncan <ldgotpaint@gmai[.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 1:51PM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
From:
Sent:
2822NOV -3 PH ? 24
To:
OFFICE OF THE
GOtiNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom ldgotpaint@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam writingto urge allcouncilmembers to support the revisedBill159 with the additionalamendments to limithotels
and timeshares.
Ilivein KiheiHi and we are being overwhelmed and made miserable by tourists.On our streetalone they drive up and
down ailday and nightlong. They are lookingfor Kalama VillageShopping which does not have adequate signageto
turn people intotheirparkinglot.The same forSouth Maui Gardens. Also theirshortage of parking isnow causing
touriststo park along our streetusingthe spaces our residentsneed. Ihave made a requestto comconnect that a sign
indicatingthatthereisno through accessor additionalshopping/eatingup our streetbe installed.A residentonly
parkingsigninfrontof our singlefamilyneighborhood homes would also help.Meanwhile more and more people are
coming and buildingisbeing approved. This isonly one small piece of the problem. Please stop the growth before itis
too late.
Please help the residentsof Maui
Respectfullysubmitted,
Linda Duncan
1
Count^Clerk O t —
From:
Sent:
CaitlinDuquette <duquette@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 2:36 PM
County Clerk
Support of Bill159
mi NOV -2 PH 2: 40
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom duquette@hawaii.edu.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha mai.
Tm \A/ritingto support Bill159 that regulatesthe camper tourism business industry.
Not only are our publicspaces being increasinglyinfiltratedby tourists,but privatelands are also being disrespectedby
touristcampers. Theirpresence not only impacts our localcommunity (localmeaning kanaka maoii and those whose
familieshave experiencedplantationoppression)but has a destructiveecologicalimpact on the land.Especiallywhen
touristsare accessingprivateland,where there islittleto no regulation for destructive human behavior.
Historically,localssee littleto no profitfrom the tourism industryas itperpetuates plantationoppression,the military
industrialcomplex, and white settlercolonialism.Allof which intend to erase indigenous people and commodify the
land and who ever isleft.Regulatingcamper tourism willreleasesome pressure created by the tourism industryas well
as allowsafeand stress-freeaccessto outdoor spacesfor locals.
Mahalo foryour time,
CaitlinDuquette
she/her
1
County Clerk
Norman M Estin <docmaui@mac.com>
Friday,November 4, 2022 5:50 AM
Angela R. Lucero
County Clerk
Resolution22-252 Re:Testifyingon HospitalResolution
Reso 22-252.pdf;Agenda11.04.22.pdf
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom docmaui(5)mac.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Thank you foryou email.
On the behalfof many Medical
Servicesand Providerson West Maui, Iformallyrequestthat no action be taken on thisresolutiontoday and that the
resolution be sent to the Human Concerns and Parks Committee for further discussion.
There are many issuesmedical and community issuesconcerning any such development which have yet to be presented
or discussed.
1would be happy to be involved infurtherdiscussionsbefore the HCP committee.
As the ecomment featuremay be unavailableforthiscouncilmeeting, please forward thisrequest as necessary.
Mahalo,
Norman M. Estin,M.D.
Medical Director
Doctors On Call
Urgent Care and
Testing Centers
t: 808-667-7676
c: 808-283-7676
nestin@docmaui.com
docmaui.com
On Nov 2,2022, at 1:29 PM, Angela R. Lucero <Angela.Lucero@maui county.us> wrote:
Aloha e Dr.Estin,
Ihope thisemail findsyou well.Iwanted to send a follow-up email to our phone callyesterday.
I'veattached the Resolutionand Friday'sCouncil agenda above.
When you submit your writtentestimony, please be sure to reference the resolutionby number
(Resolution22-252).Also,inyour testimony,you may request that the resolutionbe sent to the Human
Concerns and Parks (HCP) Committee forfurtherdiscussion.Written testimony should be sent to
1
countv.clerkOmauicountv.us. Itwould be helpfulto reference Resolution 22-252 inthe subjectlineof
the email.
It looks like the ecomment feature is unavailable for Friday'scouncil meeting. So, Ican't see any other
testimony that has been submitted concerning the reso. Looking through CM Paltin'semails,Ihaven't
seen any testimony relatedto the West Maui Hospital.
Lastly,1have included the video linkto the HCP Committee's 10.17.22 meeting. The West Maui Hospital
was discussed at that meeting. 1thought you may findithelpful.
http://mauicountv.granicus.com/MediaPiaver.php7view id=l&clip id=1715
Please letme know ifyou have any other questions.
Thank you!
Angela
Angela Lucero
Executive Assistant
Office of Councilmember Tamara Paltin
West Maui Residency
Office:(808)270-5504
2
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Amy Fonarow <afonarow@yahoo.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 6:08 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
Aloha, Maui County Councilmembers!
My name isAmy Fonarow, Iam an ocean advocate and former Maui resident,and Iam testifyinginsupport of revised
Bill159, but with additionalamendments to limithotelsand timeshares.
Ibelievethatsupportingthisbillwillallow residents'qualityof lifeto be maintained ratherthan dragged down further
by even more guests.
Maui can only hold so many people,and there needs to be space foreveryone to breathe, walk, swim, drive,surf,grow
food, dance, livein(someday, Ihope) affordablehomes, and generallyenjoy themselves.
Please consider thistransientaccommodation, with amendments to limithotels and timeshares.
Thank you, and aloha!
Sincerely,
Amy
1
Count^^Clerk
mi NOV-3 an 8: 18
r\ w' r:
SteveForman <stevenmforman@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 9:27 PM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF TH
■■’'OUNTYCLERK
a.
You don'toftenget emailfrom stevenmforman@yahoo.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
^lease support bill159. Tourism has gotten to the point itisover burdening Maui
Thanks
Steven Forman
1
RECEIVED
November 3, 2022 ■ ■ ■
20Z?NOV -3 PH M 57
HAWAI'I HOTELThe Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
The Honorable Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vice-Chair
Maui County Council
Kalana O Maui Building
200 South High Street,8th Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
A i i. I \ N c' t
■■)FRCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
RE: BILL 152, to amend the FiscalYear 2023 Budget, Appendix A, Part II,SpecialPurpose
Revenues - Schedule of Revolving/SpecialFunds, by adding an appropriation under the
Affordable Housing Fund for Maui Oceanview LP forthe Pulelehua Affordable Housing
Project in the amount of $18,000,000.
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Femandez, and Councilmembers ,
Iam writingon behalfof HawaiM HotelAllianceand our member organizationstosupportBill152,
appropriatingfundsto supporta public-privatepartnershiptoacceleratethedevelopmentof allthe
affordablehomes intothefirstphase of thenew Pulelehuacommunity inWest Maui.
For many years,Maui has struggledto buildenough new workforceand affordablehousingunitstomeet
the currentdemand. By 2025, thestateDepartment Department of Business,Economic Development and
Tourism estimates that Maui will need almost 14,000 new units.
At thesame time,we have seen a surgeof vacationrentalspushinglocalsoutof residentialcommunities,
and the median priceof a single-familyhome on Maul has passedthe $1 millionmark. The resulthas
been localfamilies— includingsome who work atMaui hotels— fleeingMaui County insearchof better
housing opportunitiesand a lower costof living.We can and must do better.
At Hawaii Hotel Alliance,we know itwilltake innovativeideasand collaborativecooperationbetween
the government and theprivatesectorto solveMaui’s affordablehousingcrisis.That’swhy we arehappy
to lendour voiceinsupportof Bill152.We applaudyour effortsto advancethismeasure and the
developer’seffortsto expeditetheconstructionof affordablehousing unitsinthefirstphase of
construction at Pulelehua.
We ask allCouncilmembers to supportBill152.
Mahalo nui loa,
xf C.
JerryGibson
President
HC HAWAI‘1
COf^'MUNlPi'
LENgl^G ■=■^m
w
73
m
oHawaiian Community assets
●< w moo
<r* *'
m
::qx
r*\ rr>
m
oNovembers, 2022 N>
Ov
Aloha e Councilmembers,
Iam writingon behalf of Hawaiian Community Assets (HCA) and Hawaii Community Lending (HCL) to
support Committee Report no. 22-110 recommending passage of Bill152.
The billwould appropriate$18 millioninfunds from the Affordable Housing Fund for Maui Oceanview
LP forthe Pulelehua Affordable Housing Project.The investment willensure 120 affordablerentalsand
for-sale homes for our local residents as well as market rate homes for Maui's workforce.
The projectwas identifiedas a priorityprojectInthe Maui County Comprehensive Affordable Housing
Plan created by HCA and a team of experts with feedback from nearly 1,600 Maui County residents.
We encourage the Councilto approve the billto support affordablehousing forlocalfamilies.
Mahalo forthe opportunityto voicesupport for Bill152. Please contact me directlyat 808.587.7653 or
jeff@hawaiiancommunity.net should you have any questions or need more information.
Sincerely
Jeff Gilbreath
Executive Director
Hawaii Community Lending
Count^ClerJc
From:
Sent:
Taryn Kama <taryn@gogetitgal.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 11:02AM
County Clerk;Stefano Maffini
testimonyforpermittedtransientaccommodations hearing
To:
Subject:
j You don'toftengetemailfrom taryn(S)gogetitgal.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Dear County Council Members:
Iwriteto ask you to pleasekeep allowingcurrentlypermitted transientaccommodations to operate inour communities
and to continuecontributingto our localeconomy.
We own legalvacationrentals,hirelocalpeople forcleaning,repairs,maintenance, etc.and pay quite a largeportion of
our income back intothe county system through our transienttax,property tax,etc.We live,work and invest in our
localeconomy. We keep the money flowingback intothe county. Itisa vitalpart of the localeconomy. Thank you for
your consideration.
Taryn Givenchy and Stefano Maffini
Vacation rental owners in Haiku
808-205-2033
1
County Clerk
im NOV-3 AN 8: 18
From:
Sent:
Otoro <otoroph@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 7:10 PM
County Clerk
Bill159: camper vans
To:
Subject: or !CE Of THE
OUWTY CLERK/'> .
[You don'toftenget emailfrom otoroph@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
>
> Iam writingto voice my strong support for Bill159 and the ban on camper vans.
>
> Maui does not have the infrastructure(parking/campingsites,waste management/ disposal,roads,etc)to handle the
influxof these vehicleswe have alreadyseen, letalone any increase in number that willalmost certainlyoccur ifthisbill
isnot passed.Our beaches and roads are alreadyovercrowded, making itnearlyimpossible for residentsto enjoy our
beautifulhome, and causingstressand damage to our fragileand extremely vulnerableenvironment. These vans
typicallyhave no provisionforsafedisposalof human waste, resultingin unsightlyand hazardous accumulation of waste
along our beaches, inour parks,and along our roads.This poses health risksto people, wildlife,and our endangered reef
ecosystem.
>
> Continuing to allow these vans on Maui would also be a grievous offense againstour houseless residents,many of
whom are kanaka maoli,who've been pricedout of housing and are not legallyallowed to sleepinvehicles—and would
be yet another example of county government cateringto the visitorindustryat the expense of residents.That is
unacceptable.
>
> Talk about improving qualityof lifefor residentsmeans nothing ifnot backed up by action,such as Bill159.1 urge you
to pass itand show Maui county residentsyou are seriousabout making our lives,and our islandhome, better.
>
> Thank you foryour support.
>
> Margaret Hansen
> Wailuku
>
>
1
Count^Oei^ nice.,,. tb
mi NOV-3 AH 8:19
From:
Sent:
ChetylHendrickson <chermcmaui@aol.com>
Thursday, Novembers, 2022 7;21 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
office of the
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom chermcmaui@aol.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council members-
Please pass revised Bill159 with additionalamendments to limithotels and
timeshares. Current visitornumbers are already untenable and in excess of what is
stated on the Maui Island Plan.
The existingmoratorium nor Bill159 would reduce the current number of visitors.The
visitorindustrywillremain as iswith no jobs lost.
Our water supply isalready at a precarious pointand cannot support more
accommodations. Our landfillstoo cannot support the additionalwaste that new
accommodations willgenerate.
Limitson furtherexpansion of tourism are necessary to ensure our qualityof life.
Many Mahalos,
Cheryl Hendrickson
mDAH 1
imeshare with
November 3, 2022
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
Bill 159 - A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE
ZONING ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS
Hearing date: Friday,November 4,2022 at 9:00AM
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you forallowingARDA-Hawaii to submit testimonyprovidingOPPOSITION to Bill
159 - A BILL FOR AN ORDfNANCE AMENDING THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING
ORDINANCE RELATING TO TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION CAPS. Bill 159 seeks to
amend Title19 of theMaui County Code (MCC) toestablishtransientaccommodations caps.
ARDA Hawaii recognizes the amendments made to Bill 159. The measure willrepealthe
temporary moratorium on new transientaccommodations and instead set caps on transient
accommodation units on Maui. The amended version of the measure seeksto manage thegrowth
of the tourismindustryon Maui in a more reasonablemanner ratherthaneliminatethegrowth of
tourismon Maui as originallyproposed.
The timeshareindustryisan essentialhospitalityindustrysectorand significantlycontributes
toMaui'seconomy. While ARDA Hawaii appreciatesthecouncilmembers and otherstakeholders’
hardwork and willingnesstocompromise on Bill159,we areunsurewhy timesharepropertiesare
subjectto additionalpermittingrequirementsthan othersimilaruses.We are gratefulforthe
opportunityto work with the council on thismeasure and look forward to working togetherto
manage tourism in a reasonable fashion.
Thank you foryour considerationof my comments.
Respectfullysubmitted.
D
Mitchell A. Imanaka
ARDA Hawaii Chair
Kiri'.r-f\/County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Debi Javar<debijavar@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 8:52 PM
County Clerk
SUPPORT BILL 159
mi NOV-3 AH8:,g
'JrKICE OF THF
ffiOUNTVCLERK
To:
Subject:
■ You don'toftengetemailfrom debijavar@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
IfullySUPPORT BILL159. Hawai'iisnot equipped forcamper vans, ietoilets.Touristneed to stay intheirhotel and not
in camper vans. Camper vans should NOT be allowed to operate as a business.
Thank you.
1
REClI/ED
Maui County CouncilMeetingofNovember 4,2022 20WNOV*3 PH 'S45
Re: Testimony relatingtoResolutionNo. 22-252
From: JoAnne JohnsonWiner - mynaboyd@me.com OFFICE Or THE
50 PuuAnoano Street,#508, Lahaina, Hi 9676
808-463-7158
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Council Chair and Members -
Iwant tothank you foryour supportoftheWest Maui Hospital and
forpreparingthedraftresolution"'UrgingtheStateLegislatureand
theGovernor oftheStateofHawai'itoprovidefortheestablishment
of the proposed West Maui Hospitaland Medical Center."
Our thanks to the Human Concerns and Parks Committee Chair,
Tasha Kama, forschedulingtheWest Maui Hospitalpresentationto
update thecommunity on theprogressofthisprojectand what is
needed inordertobegin theconstructionphase ofthehospital.
We apologizeforsome ofthe West Maui trafficdelaysas we
complete theinfrastructurerequiredin order tobegin thebuilding
phase ofthehospital.Once thisisdone itwillenableus to move
forward with actual construction.
Itismy understandingthattheresolutionwillbe sentto committee
ratherthanpassedon theflooroftheCouncil.Ifitissent to
committeewe hope thatitwillbe scheduledpriortotheend ofthis
Council term, since the Grant in Aid that we will be applying forwill
likelybe submitted in December of 2022.
Ifitcannotbe heard beforetheend ofterm,we urge themembers to
waive committee referraland seekpassageon theflooroftheCouncil
in orderthattheStateunderstand theimportance ofthisproject.Itis
criticalto those of us who have often been forced to travel for close to
an hour to receive needed medical attention.
In any event,we appreciatetheeffortsof theCouncilto assistus in
moving forward with our hospitaltoinsurethatthehealthand safety
of theWest Maui Community isprotectedforgenerationsto come. I
am sure thatthosewho remember we once had a hospitalin West
Maui willbe gratefulforit'sreturn.
RFCCount^Clei^ a
michelieJones <followurbliss.Jones@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 10:04 AM
County Clerk
Regarding camping businesses/timesharerentals
From:
Sent:
?!)??NOV -3 AH 02
To:
vhHGE OF THE
GOUNTY CLEF^K
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom followurbliss.Jones@gmaii.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Council,
Ijustwanted to put my two cents inthat Iam infavor of strictregulationson camper van/truckbusinessesand also
other businessestakingover beach parks such as canoe and scuba companies.
Over the years,Ihave witnessed these types of companies taking up valuable space on the beaches where familiesused
to be ableto sittogether.We stopped going to Makena Landing years ago because the scuba companies have taken it
over and the beach rightnext to ithas been taken over by a canoe rentalcompany. Paired with the luxuryhomes being
builttakingaway beaches likeWhite Rock,these types of companies are trulyinvadingthe littleroom localpeople have
to gather.
The camping facilitieson Maui are seriouslylimitedalready,so allowing companies to invade that space Isjustwrong.
Something has to be done to stop people from invadingpublicplacesto make a profit.
Thank you foryour ear.
Michelle
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
IvaleeKamalu <ive808maui@gmail.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 6:35AM
County Clerk
Support of bill159
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom ive808maui@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
I'm sending thisemail insupport of bill159. We need to stop these transplantsfrom usingour 'ainaforcommercial
purposes. Isee them allover our beaches on the west side and it'sjustnot pono. We are not an RV destinationand
don't have the proper infrastructureto supportthese types of campers and vehicleson wheels.
Mahalo. A hikiike aloha 'ainahope loa,
Ivalee Kamalu
1
County Clerk
R .rCvi’::i £ DFrom:
Sent:
KanekapoleiKana <kanekapolei@icloud.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 1:58 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
mi NOV -3 PH 2^To:
Subject:
VJ5FFJGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom kanekapolei@icloud.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha
Iam instrong support of
Bill159 to regulatethe
camper van industry.As a
lifelong residentof Maui 1
am frustrated and
overwhelmed with over
tourism. Residents are
inundated with tourism
everyday and now we find
visitorssleepingon our
publicbeaches illegally.
Please support bill159.
Mahalo
Kanekapolei Kana
1
RECEi'/EDCount^let^
im NOV -1 AH 8:07KawikaMikialaGrace <veekzmikilalag@gmail.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 7:48AM
County Clerk
Please read
From:
Sent:
To:
-f-FICE OF THE
OOUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom veekzmikilalag@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciatethe
economic value they bringto Maui.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter withthese
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
County of Maui Residents
1
■fc * *¥ -
PRMA
Stu*
November 4,2022
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui Chamber of Commerce,
we are in support of Bill159 with the current changes and amendments that have been made.
PRMA, the ProfessionalRental Management Association,is a coalitionof professional property
management companies representing over 1600 legallyzoned condominium vacation rental
units throughout Maui. Our members are licensed in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the
management of legalvacation rentalproperties,primarilycondominiums, and comply with real
estate licenselaw and code of ethics.Our companies represent 216 years in business,employing
nearly 200 employees and over 300 independent contractorsand vendors.
Our industryishighlyimpacted by Bill159 and we appreciate that our concerns were taken into
account and considered inthe changes and editstothe bill.We appreciatethatwe were given the
chance toshare our concerns and inputand thatthisbillwillend the currentmoratorium.
We requested that the councilconsider and approve the suggestionsproposed by testifiers
referencingsection11,19.32.040regardingplanned developments as well as section15 regarding
the historic districts.
Specifically,we thank you forkeeping the codefiedwording intactthat was implemented
surrounding planned developments which would allow those defined properties (Puamana,
Kaanapali Plantationand Alaealoa)to remain as legaloperating vacationrentalsand allowed to
make renovationsand changes as needed.
Second, we requested thattvrsin hotelzoning in the historicdistrictswould be allowed to continue
as fullypermitted and not grandfathered in as non-conforming. Properties such as Lahaina Shores
and Aina Nalu have always been zoned hoteland are operating as vacation rentalunitsand we
believethey should be allowed to fullycontinue to do so.Thank you formaking thischange.
We appreciateyou listeningto our voiceand look forward to working with the councilon any
futureprojectsas they arise.We know and understand that thiswas a compromise on allsidesand
we appreciatethe councilworking togetherwith our industry to make these changes.
On behalfof PRMA, we support Bill159.
Thank you and we welcome any discussionwith you or a member ofyour administrationand we can
be contactedat Mauiprma@gmail.com.
Mahalo,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Maui ProfessionalRental Management Association TMaui PRMA)
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
KawailaniKimokeo <kimokGo.kawailani@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 12:26 PM
County Clerk
A'OLE CAMPER VAN
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from kimokeo.kawaiIani@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification]
Aloha
Iam instrong support of Bill159 to regulatethe camper van industry.As a lifelong residentof Maui Iam frustratedand
overwhelmed with over tourism. Residents are inundated with tourism everyday and now we findvisitorssleepingon
our publicbeaches illegally.Pleasesupport bill159.
Mahalo
Kawailani Kimokeo
CT0 ;oSent from my iPhone *T\
m
zo
CD
oI
mm \jj
-<
o 3 mm OuJ
1
Count^CleHc
RECfc
im NOV-3 AH 8=18
From:
Sent:
Kimberly Kowalski <kmkowalsk@hotmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 6:08 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
»●
To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKI You don'toftenget emailfrom kmkowalsk@hotmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Iam a 20 year Maui resident insupport of Bill159. PLEASE limittourism growth! There isquicklybecoming
only touristson Maui and no one leftwho can affordto liveand work here. Maui's infrastructurecannot
support any more people.
Kimberly Kowalski MD
1
County Clerk
m TvEU
ClaireLaurentine<celaurentine@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 7:47 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
From:
Sent:
ZIIZ2NOV-3 AH 8: 19To:
Subject:
ICE CF THE
qounty clerk
I-
[You don’toften get email from celaurentine@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Hello,
My name isClaireand iam writinginmy support of Bill159 to regulatethe camper van business inMaui.
Thank you,
Claire
1
Kl C
im OCT31 PH 1=59
Raenel Leauanae <raenel@envisionsentertainment.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 1:55 PM
County Clerk
BILL159 - Campervan Legislationon Maui
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: OrnCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom raenel@envisionsentertainment.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses. We support the responsible camper companies here on islandand appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Raenel Leauanae
HR Manager/Accounfing
Envisions Enferfainmenf & Productions, Inc.
36 Pa’a Street Kahului, HI 96732
p: 808.874.1000 d: 808.875.1932 c: 808.870.6629
www.envisionsentertainment.com
Focebook. Instaaram. Tv^tter & Pinterest
1
Count^CleH< ●cB' ^ C i '
From:
Sent:
Tammy Luat <tammyluat85@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 8:34 PM
County Clerk
Bill159
20??NOy-3 g..Ig
cICE OP THE
COUNTY CLERK
To:
Subject: I- -
You don'toftenget emailfrom tammyluat85@yahoo.com. Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
My name isTammy Luat-Hueu and Ilivein Keanae Maui. Iam wholeheartedly insupport of Bill159 regardingcamper
vans being used as lodging.The people who operate theircamper van businesses are a very small number people with
multiplevans making money at the misery of the restof Maui's residents.They rentthese vans and wash theirhands of
these "guests".These touristend up stayinginour communities without knowing where itisnot so safe to park. They
have no security.No knowledge of water conditionsand other safetyprecautions.Itsridiculous.
Ihave so many encounters with these camper vans but iwilltellyou a recent one. My family have woken up to people
sleepinginour driveway twice thispastsummer. How would you liketo get up to that scenario?When my husband
approached the van, the two young girlswere terrifiedbegging him not to open theirvan door. He letthem know he
wouldn't hurtthem but alsoletthem know they were on privateproperty inour driveway!! They saidthe guy who
rented the van toldthem thatanywhere on the Hana highway was safe for them to stay.
We own a business that benefits from tourism so we are not here to bash tourism.We are here to say enough with over
tourism. Ifthere isnot enough hotel rooms, then we have reached our capacity,rescheduleyour trip.We have lostour
peace and securityas residents.Please do not be fooled by the small minority of people who want to make a quick buck
at our expense. Letthe touriststay at legallodgingwhere there issecurityon staffand keep them out of our small
neighborhoods.
Mahalo,
Tammy Luat-Hueu
210 Keanae Road
Keanae, HI 96708
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Nathaneal Lundquist<lundquistn@gmail.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 11:15AM
County Clerk
Regarding new Campervan bill
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom lundquistn@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha my name isNate, I'mwith Campervan Hawaii.Justwanted to have a chance to give some voice to the new bill.As
IfeelIwas never given one. I'vebeen with the company for about a year and a halfand it'sbeen the bestjob I'vefound
so farduringmy 11 yearson Maui.One of the most rewarding partsisseeing how the customers returnfrom theirtrip.
This experience allows them to see the realHawaii and to know realaloha. Rather than a hotel bubble. Come here,
spend money, but don'texplore,or camp ina van. When ItravelIcan'taffordmotels. Campervans allow me and others
to experience 20x more the culture,nature,geography, and people. Puttinga stop to Campervans issaying no to aloha
which Ihope Hawaii stillbelievesin.Not to mention my job that supports me and others.
Best regards
Nate Lundquist
1
Count^^lerk p IZr-r-■■\/rJp
Malia MK <malierblurz@gmail.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 10:24AM
County Clerk
Timmy
Bill159 Campervan Legislationon Maui
From;
Sent: 20Z2NOV-I AH 10:28
To:
Cc; vJFFlCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don't often get email from malierblurz@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses. We support the responsible camper companies here on island and appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui. Not to mention, supplemental income to localresidents,who strugglewith
the high cost of livingon our beautifulisland.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely
MakaB
1
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Malia King <maliers@hotmai[.conn>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 10:22AM
County Clerk
Timmy
Opposition to Bill159
mim-i AHia-28
To:
Cc: flCE OF THE
■UNTY CLERKSubject: .j
I You don'toften get email from ma!iers@hotmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on island and appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui. Not to mention, supplemental income to localresidents,who strugglewith
the high cost of livingon our beautifulisland.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
-Malia K
1
Count^£lerk RCCr.:7EQ
im NOV -2 AH 9:ON
From:
Sent:
Edwin Manini <unko.lae@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 6:35AM
County Clerk
Concerns for Bill159
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
(You don'toftenget emailfrom unko.lae@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification]
Aloha,
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection19.36B.120 of of Bill
159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community and small
businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciatethe economic value they bring
to Maui.
Iurge Maui County Councilto consider providingmore time to discussthiscomplicated matter with these owners
and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy and addresses the
concerns of other residents.
Mahalo foryour time and support and forgivingus the opportunity to continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Edwin Manini
1
RECEIVEDCount^Clei^
im NOV -3 AH W- 02From:
Sent:
heather mcclain <heathercmcclain(5)gmail.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 10:07AM
County Clerk
In Support of Bill159
To:
OFFiGE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom heathercmcclain@gmail.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha,
I am writing to voice my support for Bill159 and the ban on camper vans. Maui does not have
the infrastructure,such as parking and camping sites,disposal for human waste, and the roads
to handle the influxitwillsurely cause ifthis billis not implemented. Our beaches and roads are
already overcrowded, making Itimpossible for me and others who live here to have enjoyment
of the island we work so hard for.
Hawaii and Maui are home to endangered plants and wildlife.We must be good stewards of the
aina to protect what we have. It is vulnerable and fragile.We cannot have people in these vans
going to areas, trampling plants and whatnot, to urinate and defecate on our lands. As the Maui
Nui Resource Council reminds us, the reef, ocean and beaches are in peril.Why would we further
strain what we have and have worked tirelesslyto protect.
I urge you to pass Bill159 to protect Maui from the blightthis willsurely bring. We have enough
unsheltered human beings on Maui already. Let us not allow camper van nomads In the mix for
resources, which are already non-existant or in short supply.
With Warmest Aloha,
Heather McClain
Honokowai
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
AshlieMcGuire <amcsuperstar@yahoo.com>
Friday,November 4, 2022 7:14 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from amcsuperstar@yahoo.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha my name isAshlieMcGuire and Iam testifyinginsupport of Bill159, however 1believethere should be additional
amendments to limit hotels and timeshares. Maui has had enough. Please don't ruinour home the way they've ruined
O'ahu.
1
County Clerk
V hU
im NOV-3 AH 8:19
From:
Sent:
Thomas Mellin<tmellin@yahoo.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 7:48 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
OrFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftenget emailfrom tmellin@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha kakou,
A definition of overtourism:
Tourism that has moved beyond the limitsof acceptablechange ina destinationdue to quantity of visitors,resultingin
degradation of the environment and infrastructure,diminished travelexperience,wear and tearon builtheritage,
and/or negativeimpactson residents.
MAUI ISLAND PLAN
Page 4-14
Policies: 4.2.3 Maximize residents' benefits from the visitorindustry.
Implementing Actions:4.2.3a Promote a desirableislandpopulation by strivingto not exceed an island-widevisitor
population of roughly 33 percent of the residentpopulation.(Emphasis mine)
Iam surprised and extremely disappointed that the Maui IslandPlan seems to have had so littlepracticalmeaning. Ido
not believethat thisplan was developed justto be ignored. Isour qualityof lifegoing to be the next sandalwood, sold
for shortterm monetary gain,never to return?We are alreadyover the prescribedlimitand are wellon our way to
overtourism with allof itsnegative effects.
Please support the originalBill159.
Mahalo,
Tom Mellin
Kihei
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
ZOZZHOV-I AH 8:07From:
Sent:
mikialaking <mikiala74@gmail.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 7;45 AM
County Clerk
Urgent
To:
:-mCE OF THE
OOUWTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom mikiala74@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
As a residentofMaui County, Iwish to voicemy oppositionto the amended language insection 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedtocampervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on island and appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
County of Maui Resident and Ghana
1
Count^Clerk ppr.nvFn
20?INOV-1 ah 8=07From;
Sent:
biggameamp <biggameamp(3)gmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 9:39 PM
County Clerk
DO NOT PASS BILL 159
To:
OF THE
●:OUNTY CLERK
Subject: ' >— i~ I ^ r-
I You don'toftenget emailfrom biggameamp@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community and
small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciate the economic
value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Dustyn Min
Sent from my Verizon,Samsung Galaxy smartphone
1
County Clerk
nc<?r:.ivc.D
From:
Sent:
Robin Manaois <manaoisrobin@yahoo.com>
Monday, October 31, 2022 1:12 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
im OCT 31 PH 1^'30
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
GGUNTTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfrom manaoisrobin(5)yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter withthese
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely,Robin Min
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
202ZNQV-I AN 8:07350rmin <350rmin@gmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 9:36 PM
County Clerk
DO NOT PASS THE BILL 159
From:
Sent:
To:
CE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
● /r r I
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom 350rmin@gmail.com. Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B.120 of
Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community and
small businesses. We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciate the economic
value they bringto Maui.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely.
Rose Min
Sent from my Verizon,Samsung Galaxy smartphone
1
REC iVED
Count^Clerk NUV-1 AH 8:67
Ryan Min <rkaipo@hotmail.com>
Monday, October 31, 2022 9:56 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
From:
Sent:
OFFiCE OF THE
COUNTY GLERK
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom rkaipo@hotmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection 19.36B.120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses. We support the responsible camper companies here on islandand appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iflocallyowned small businesses are doing everythingthey can tofollowcurrentrulesand provide an
affordableoptionto allvisitorsto our beautifulislandMaui, the county should be supportiveofthistype of
businesses. Why isitnecessary to ban something thatprovides localbusinesses and localpeople the
opportunityto enjoy Maui or theirhome island,from a personal reactionalvehicle.
There has to be a compromise or solutionto thisissue.A proposed ban seems to discriminateagainstone
type of localbusiness specifically.This seems unfairand biased.There isalways a way to make itwork. We
should be up forthe task of doing the hard work and findinga way.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thisvery complicated matterwiththese
business owners and the community at-large.Together, with lotsof hard work and akamai thinking,we can
crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy and addresses the concerns of otherresidents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Ryan K Y Min
1
County Clerk
TTETT
mi NOV -3 AH 8: 19
From:
Sent:
Leonard Nakoa <junyanakoa@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 7:14 AM
County Clerk
Bill 152
To:
Subject:
OFFICE GF THE
GGUNTY CLERK
I You don'toftengetemailfromjunyanakoa@gmaii.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Howzit my name isJunya Nakoa from Napili,Lahaina.1am infullsupport of bill152. Thisprocess isgreatto make
developers to buildallaffordablehomes first.And Paul Cheng and Pulelehua isstepping up to the plate.Let'smake this
happen for the PEOPLE OF MAUL SHOOTS.
1
County Clerk
B£Cl!VCD
im NOV-3 Aft8;18Nipuu Keahi-ng <malaleft1@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 6:10 PM
County Clerk
Van dwellers
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: Ov FICE Or THE
COUNTY eiERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom malaleftl@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha my name isNipuu Ng, Iam
Born and raisedin Lahaina.Inthe past few years IVe witnessed illegalcamping at our publicbeaches by tourists.These
touristshave no accessto publicrestrooms which leavesthem with using our beach and publicpark as a restroom.
Please support bill159.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
RaphiellNolin <raphiell@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 9:31 PM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
mi my -3 AH 8- 16To:
Subject:
OFf'ICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom raphiell@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
1am testifyinginsupport of Bill159. Iwould alsoprefer that there be a cap on new constructionof tourist
accommodations and time shares. Maui iscurrentlyat itscapacityof visitors.Any more would seriouslydecrease the
qualityof lifefor us residents.
Mahalo,
Raphiell Nolin,
284 EiilaniSt.
Pukalani, Hi 96768
1
Count^£leH< mi K '
From:
Sent:
Donald OConnor <oconnorinc(o)yahoo.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 12:44 PM
County Clerk
Bill 159
NOV-3 PH »=>2
ofpige of the
gSuntyclerk
im
To:
Subject:
You don'toftengetemailfrom oconnorinc@yahoo.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a 40 year residentof Maui County and a registeredvoter,Iwish to voice my opposition to the
amended language insection19.36B.120 ofof Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreational
vehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community and small businesses. We support the
responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciatethe economic value they bring to Maui.
Iurge Maui County Councilto considerprovidingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with
these owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our
localeconomy and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Donald O'Connor
15 Awela Circle #103
Wailuku, Hi 96793
1
Count^^lerk
From:
Sent:
Curen Ohama <curenmohama@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 2:47 PM
County Clerk
Camping vehicles
To:
Subject:
[You don'toftenget emailfrom curenmohama@gmail.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha ,I'm Curen Ohama of Pukalaniand Isupport Bill159.
Sent from my iPhone
0“n
C-n mCD
oI
mN3
oo "O
<-n
mrn - \
a●x: n
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros<mavisoliveira@gmail.com>
Friday,November 4, 2022 10:16 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
To:
Subject:
Aloha Chair Lee & Council Members:
This isMavis Oliveira-Medeiros, Council Aide at Hana DistrictOffice.
I'm writingregardingBill159, camper vans. Isupport regulationof the camper van industry,prefernone.
Being that Hana isso small you easilyspot them drivingup and down inthe evening time, when it'susuallyquiet,
lookingfora placeto illegallypark & camp. That'sour quiet time at the end of the day, when most Touristhave headed
back to their hotels.
They're at Kapueokahi, near my work, at Koki beach when Idrivehome from work and at Hamoa Beach, where we go
for a late swim.
They're not allcourteous,definitelynot. And Hana only has two placesthatcampers are allowed,the Statepark &
sometimes Ohe'o. They don't allchoose to use these places.
These owners do not educate them likesome say. Itwould probably not be so bad ifthey would only camp at
designated areas. No, they park wherever they finda spot and prefercamping at the beaches illegally.
I'm sorrythat people seem to move here & come up with wild & illegalways about what kind of businessesthey can
open & stilllivehere. Most do not care that they are ruiningour lifestyles.Perhaps the worst thingof alliswhen they
leave their trash behind and their waste.
Policeonly enforce when they can. We try& warn them thatthey can'tcamp here or there,but word gets back to other
future rentersthat they "camped at so & so beach & saw the moon rise& sunrisefrom the same spot." Itspreads like
wildfire.
Pleaseregulateor stop these illegalcamper vans before it'stoo late.
Mahalo,
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros
1
Count^Clerk nCCrjVLiD
im NOV-3 AN 8.-18
From:
Sent:
Pono Ordonez <kordonez0192@gmail.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 8:17 PM
County Clerk
Over-tourismdestroyingour home
To:
Subject: rICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toften get email from kordonez0192(S)gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Please do not allow camper vans and any other form of over-tourism on Maui countyl
Please stop lettingvacationersdestroyour land!
KAIMIPONO Ordonez
(808)825-9249
Sent from my iPhone
1
RECEivrn
im NOV-3 PM S’t|i|
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Paula Phillips<paulalee@hawaii.rr.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 3:33 PM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
;!'FieE OF THE
eOUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toften get email from paulalee@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
Iwould likeyou once again to pleasevote to cap any TVR, B&Bs and to please limithotelsand
timeshares ifpossible.
Ifthere isa way to alsoadd a specificpositionor department to monitor allof the illegalTVRs
in Maui County that would be helpfulas well.
The priceof residencesto rent or purchase isout-of-reachfor so many localresidents.This will
continue to get worse ifthe TVRs are not put intheirtracks now. There are already too many
in my opinion. Ihope they also includesomething about campers. Ihave been seeing them
parked at the top of Maliko Gulch lately.Even brand new Jeeps with tents on the roof.Please
stop these as well.
Mahalo for allyou do.
Paula Phillips
Haiku
Virus-free.www.avast.com
1
Count^^leHc
N POTASH <npotash@gnnail.com>
Friday,November 4,2022 3:11 PM
County Clerk
Support of Bill159
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget email from npotash@gmail.com. Learn whv thisisimportant
Dear Maui County, thisismy formal support of the Billto regulatethe camper van businesses that have turned our
home and beaches intotheirprofitpig.So many mornings, increasinginoccasion,1show up earlyto fishand try to
provide a healthy meal for my familyand Iam greeted with camper vans taking allthe parking,going to the
bathroom inthe ocean, bathingand usingthe localfacilitiesas theirprivatebathrooms. Itisdisgustingas so sad that
you letthese businessesprofitfrom out tax dollarsand upkeep and push out the people who livehere for
generations. Please regulatethese leeches.
Sincerely-Nicholas Potash
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
StanleyRaymond, II<kiope@hawaii.edu>
Thursday,November 3,2022 11:50AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
20??NOV -3 AH If:53
To:
Subject: OFFICE GF THE
COUNtY GLE«K
You don'toftenget emailfrom kiope@hawaii.edu.Learnwhv thisisimportant
support the revisedbillwith additionalamendments to limithotelsand timeshares.
IVlahalo,
S.Ki‘opeRaymond
S. KT'ope Raymond
Professor, HWST (retired)
(808) 280-5149
'O ko kakou makemake io no ia o ka loaa o kekahi mea oiaioloa.".JH. Kanepu ‘u
1
RFC?County Clerk
Josh Riccio<jfla12@gmail.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 10:03AM
County Clerk;Junyanakoa@gmail.com
voteyestoBill152Pulelehuaresidentialcommunity^ OF TH
CLERK
From:
Sent:
im NOV -1 AM 10 28
To:
Subject: u
I You don’toften get email from jflal2@gmail.com.Learn whv thisisimportant
Aloha Maui County Clerk,
My name isJosh Riccio,I'vebeen fortunate to callWest Maui my home for the last13 years, and likemost West Maui
residentshave the dream of owning a littlepiece of maui to raisea family.Unfortunatelythe dream of owning your own
home in West Maui isprettyout of reach for most West Maui residentsas the median home pricesnow averages above
a milliondollarswhile the average income fora west maui familyisjustabove $100k,thereforeIbelieveitisimperative
to vote YES to Bill152 as itwillprovide Kama’aina, localsand longtime maui residentsthe amazing opportunityto have a
roof over theirhead they can calltheirs.
kind regards, Josh Riccio
1
RECEiVEDCount^Clerk
20??NOV-3 AH 8:18JenniferRule <lunemerjr@icloud.com>
Wednesday, November 2,2022 8:10 PM
County Clerk
Isupport bill159
From:
Sent:
OFFIOfcOF THE
County clerk
To:
Subject:
[You don’toften get email from lunemerjr@icloud.com. Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderidentification]
Aloha,
Iam contactingyou about Bill159 and the regulationof camper vans.
Iam instrong support of Bill159 and stronglyurge our councilto pass thisbillintolaw.As a residentitbreaks my heart
to see people breaking laws and sleepingon the sidesof the roads around our beautifulisland.Isee them on the side of
KahekiliHighway daily,alongsideNorth Kiheiroad and even across the streetfrom the state buildingin Wailuku! Where
are these people usingthe restroom? This needs to stop!
We have campgrounds that can be utilizedbut those who rent these vans out do not do theirdue diligenceto make sure
theirrentersare followingour current laws.That,to me, isgross negligence and needs to be dealtwith swiftly.
Again, Istronglyurge our councilto pass thisbillinto law to regulatethese campervan businesses.
A concerned citizenwho votes,
Jennifer Rule
Sent from my iPhone
1
CountyClerk
From:
Sent:
Naupaka Sako <naupaka.sako@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 10:13 PM
County Clerk
Bill159
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom naupaka.sako@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section 19.36B. 120 of
of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community
and small businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on island and appreciate the
economic value they bringto Maui.
Iurge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Naupaka Sako
1
Count^Cerk
From:
Sent:
LisaRaymond <lschattenburg@gmail.com>
Thursday,November 3,2022 9;02AM
County Clerk;KellyKing;Gabe Johnson;YukileiSugimura;Shane M. Sinenci;
TATamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us;MIKMike.Molina@mauicounty.us;AliceL Lee;Tasha
A. Kama; Keani N. Rawlins
Support forBill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
I Some peoplewho receivedthismessage don'toftengetemailfrom lschattenburg@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha,
Iurge you to support bill159 Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps. Tourism isout of controland our qualityof life
isseriouslydegraded. As someone born and raised on Maui Ihave had to sacrificetoo much to tourism and Iam sick of
it.Our natural resources are under attack and there are too many people here.
LisaSchattenburg-Raymond
Oo
O
CTJ 73C3
m
H Om I
-< w moo "n
m m
rr: D
'O
1
Count^Oerk D r: r> r- ■;im ms
From:
Sent:
Jonathan LikekeScheuer <scheuerj001@hawaii.rr.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 4:13 PM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill152,Maui CouncilCouncilMeeting,Friday, Qp
COUNTY CLERK
Z0??NOV-1PH 6:19
To:
Subject:
You don'toftenget emailfrom scheuerj001@hawaii.rr.com.Learnwhv thisisimportant
Aloha e Chair Lee,Vice Chair Rawlins-Femandez, and Members:
PleaseacceptthiswrittentestimonyinsupportofBill152,regardingan appropriationunder theAffordable
Housing Fund forMaui Oceanview LP forthePulelehuaAffordableHousing Project.
Iam familiarwiththisprojectbecauseofmy previousserviceon thestateLand Use Commission (LUC). I
concluded eightyearson theCommission, the lastfouras Chair,on June 30 of thisyear. While informed by
thatexperience,Iam writingthistestimonyinmy personalcapacity.
The main pointI wish to convey toyou isthatIhave rarelyseenprojectdevelopersso clearlycommit to
working with stakeholdersand thenmeaningfullyfollowthroughon thatcommitment, as Iobservedwith Mr.
Cheng on thisproject.His firstappearancebeforetheLUC franklydidnotgo particularlywell,and the
Commission directedhim towork withthecommunity on theirconcernsbeforereappearing.The
transformationinhisrelationshipwiththecommunity was apparentthenexttime theyappeared.
Ibelievethisisrelevantbecauseinchoosingtoenterintoa PublicPrivatePartnership,therecordand
experienceof theprivatepartner,includingintheirrelationshiptothecommunity, needstobe a key
consideration.In my observation,"PublicPrivatePartnerships"in Hawai'iusuallyend up providingthepublic
projectswhich combine theefficiencyof thepublicsectorwiththetransparencyoftheprivate
sector!Reversingthatsad stateof affairsrequiresprioritizingpartnershipswhere thedeliverablesareclear(in
thiscase,acceleratingdeliveryof shovel-readyunits),and thepartnerhas earnedthepublic'strust.Ibelieve
both of theseelementsarepresenthere.
I encourage you to favorablyconsiderthisproposalwhich willmake a good projecteven better,and offer
meaningfuland tangibleresultstoyour community.
Jonathan Likeke Scheuer, Ph.D.
Kahalawai Consulting LLC
Managing Environmental Conflict
Connect: http://www.linkedin.com/in/likeke
Water and Power In West Maui (2021)
Watch: What Does Sustainable Yield Sustain? What fand WhoJ isLeft Out? (2021)
1
Count^^CleiJ< R''c:, ^/ZD
Ml OCT31 P« |:30
From:
Sent:
ElyceSchnitzer<elycemms@gmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 1:11PM
County Clerk
Tim
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
To:
Cc:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toftengetemailfrom elycemms@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Aloha mai kakou
As a lifetimelocalresidentofMaui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection
19.36B.120 of of Bill159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact
our community and small businesses. Ihighlysupport the responsible camper companies here on islandand
appreciate the economic value they bringto Maui. Camping is partof our cultureand brings us closerto the
land and water. Italso provides us opportunitiesto learn new skills.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter with these
owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth supports our localeconomy
and addresses the concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continue thisdiscussion!Please be open to meeting with camper
companies (especiallythe small,locallyowed ones) and finda solutionthatboth sides can agree upon. Itwas
reallydishearteningto hear about thispossibleban. Mahalo foryour time.
Aloha nui,
Elyce Schnitzer
He nmau? E leka uilamai ia'u,elycemms@gmaii.com a i'olee kelepona mai, (808)3447574.
1
County Clerk PC n
From:
Sent:
Hanalei Schnitzer <h.a.n.a.l.e.i@hotmail.com>
Monday, October 31,2022 5:25 PM
County Clerk
Bill159 -Campervan Legislationon Maui
®N0V-| AH& 07To:
Subject: OrpJGE OF TH
COUNTY CLER
11~
I
[You don'toften get email from h.a.n.a.l.e.i@hotmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language insection19.36B.120 of of Bill
159 (relatedto campervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould negativelyimpact our community and small
businesses.We support the responsiblecamper companies here on islandand appreciatethe economic value they bring
to Maui.
Iurge Maui County Councilto consider providingmore time to discussthiscomplicated matter with these owners
and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthat both supports our localeconomy and addresses the
concerns of other residents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunity to continue thisdiscussion!
Sincerely,
Hanalei Schnitzer Jr.
1
DISABILITY AND COMMUNICATION ACCESS BOARD
lOiO Richards Street,Room 118 ● Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Ph. (808) 586-8121 (V) ●TTY (808) 586-8162 ● Fax (808) 586-8129
9 cO-T
CD
November 4, 2022 o
m
H m w
-<
O
“O
zx
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Members of the Maui County Council
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
rn
OPsn: w
x>
Regarding: Bill133 CD1 (2022) Relatingto Dockiess Vehiclesand Penalties
(22-116)
Dear Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council:
The Disabilityand Communication Access Board (DCAB) supports Bill133 CD 1 (2022).
DCAB has adopted a general principleon pedestrianmobilityand safetythatstatesthat
government entitiesshould "[ejnsurethatany new modes of transportationdo not
encroach on the accessibilityof existinginfrastructure,such as sidewalks,curb ramps,
entrances to buildingsor sites,or parking meters.”
Dockless transportationsystems pose a unique challenge to thatprinciple,especiallyin
comparison to docked transportationsystems, and thereforeDCAB supports the
prohibitionof dockless systems.
Thank you forthe opportunityto testifyinsupport of Bill133 CD1 (2022).
Sincerely,
KIRBY L. SHAW
Executive Director
DISABILITY AND COMMUNICATION ACCESS BOARD
1010 Richards Street,Room 118 ● Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Ph. (808) 586-8121 (V) ● TTY (808) 586-8162 ● Fax (808) 586-8129
November 4, 2022
:oCDcm c~> m
The Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and Members of the Infrastructure and
TransportationCommittee
Maui County Council
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, HI 96793
Owm
-<
Oo ~X3--n
rn H
7s n
zs
rn
ow
>o
Regarding: Bill151 CD1 (2022) Relatingto Implementationof a Parking
Ambassador Program (22-117)
Dear Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council Infrastructureand
Transportation Committee:
The Disabilityand Communication Access Board (DCAB) supportsBill151 CD1 (2022),
which would allowthe County Directorof Transportationto designateemployees or
contractorsto issue citationsforcertaintypes of infractions,includingthose relatingto
reserved accessibleparkingforpersons withdisabilities.
One of the most common complaints DCAB receivesisfrom people who observe a
vehicleparked ina reserved accessibleparkingspace withouta validdisabilityparking
permit,contactan enforcement agency, and discoverthatthe agency isunable to
respond ina timelymanner. Increasingthe number of people who are authorizedto
issue citationswillhelpto alleviatethissituationin Maui County.
While the ambassador program emphasizes drivereducation,DCAB hopes the program
does not reduce the levelsof enforcement of parkingforpersons withdisabilitieslaws
by existingenforcement agenciessuch as the Maui PoliceDepartment.
Thank you forthe opportunityto testifyinsupport of Bill151 CD1 (2022).
Sincerely
/
KIRBY L. SHAW
Executive Director
Here-’s my email:
I am writing to voice my strong support for Bill 159 and the ban on camper vans.
Why is this being allowed? I (taxpayer) can not sleep on our beaches yet the tourist
can? I have a real problem with this
Maui does not have the infrastructure (parking/camping siteSj waste management/
disposal, roads, etc) to handle the influx of these vehicles we have already seen,
let alone any increase in number that will almost certainly occur if this bill is
not passed. Our beaches and roads are already overcrowded, making it nearly
impossible for residents to enjoy our beautiful home, and causing stress and damage
to our fragile and extremely vulnerable environment. These vans typically have no
provision for safe disposal of human waste, resulting in unsightly and hazardous
accumulation of waste along our beaches, in our parks, and along our roads. This
poses health risks to people, wildlife, and our endangered reef ecosystem.
Continuing to allow these vans on Maui would also be a grievous offense against our
houseless residents , many of whom are kanaka maoli, who-’ve been priced out of
housing and are not legally allowed to sleep in vehicles-and would be yet another
example of county government catering to the visitor industry at the expense of
residents. That is unacceptable.
Talk about improving quality of life for residents means nothing if not backed up by
action, such as Bill 159. I urge you to pass it and show Maui county residents you
are serious about making our lives, and our island home, better.
Thank you for your support.
Gayle Shufeldt
Lahainatowne
QG'
6 “l!
Zo mC3
oI
-< w moo
s <*n
mm
t; m
op
i o'O
Countj^lerk
From:
Sent:
NicoleSpalding <nicolenanea@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 6:50 AM
County Clerk
Bill 159
mi NOV -3 AH 8: 19
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom nicolenanea@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha,
Iam writinginsupport of bill159 to regulatethe car camping industry.Itisvery apparent that ithas become a huge
problem inour smallislandwith limitedcamping grounds.These companies tellpeople to camp allover the place.Most
of the placesIsee them parked isnot ina designatedcamp sitelackingthingslikebathrooms and water. Most
companies or owned by people who justmoved here and are providingbudget vacationsto people. This industryneeds
to be stopped.
Mahalo foryour time,
Nicole Smith
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Oerk t¥e©. i.
From:
Sent:
stkanehailua@gmail.com
Wednesday, November 2,2022 4:12 PM
County Clerk
Please SUPPORT BilM59
jm NOV -2 m ^\7
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY OLERK
[You don'toftenget emailfrom stkanehailua@gmail.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Pleasehelpto regulatecommercial activitiesat publicbeaches on Maui. Isupport Bill159.
Mahalo.
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Cle^
From:
Sent:
Hau'oli Thielk <naluhiwa@aol.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 9:02 PM
County Clerk
overtourism
To:
Subject:
[You don'toften get email from naluhiwa(S)aol.com.Learn why thisisimportant at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification]
Aloha kakou,
Please stop lettingmore touristsvisithere.We are overwhelmed with them already.The qualityof lifefor the real
residentsof Maui isbeing compromised because of allthe problems they bring,such as traffic,no parking,long lines
everywhere, no beach access, bad entitledattitude,disrespectforthe Hawaiian culture, puttingour firstresponders at
risk,,crowding up every space on thisisland.Allof the hotelsare already on the nicestbeaches that Iused to go to
going up here,but isofflimitsto us due to securityharassinglocalsand lackof parking.Enough already!When willthe
residentscome first?Seems likeevery kind of so calledimprovements to infrastructureare only done forthe tourists.
We are tiredof being slavesto asshole haoles who don't appreciate our islands.This attitudethat hawaii isAmericas
playground to vacationand abuse needs to stop! We livehere too! When willwe come first?
MAHALO
Hau'oli Thielk
1
RECEiVEDCounty Clerk
ZD??NOV-I PH |:54From:
Sent:
Micah ipTucker <mt80833@icloud.com>
Tuesday, November 1,2022 ^1:45AM
County Clerk
Biil159
To:
OFrICE OF THti
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
I You don'toften get email from mt80833@icioud.com. Learn why thisisimportant
Aloha
As a residentof Maui County, Iwish to voice my oppositionto the amended language in section
19.36B.120 of of Bill159 (relatedto oampervans and recreationalvehicles).This billwould
negativelyimpact our community and small businesses. We support the responsible camper
companies here on island and appreciate the economic value they bringto Maui.
I urge Maui County Council to consider providingmore time to discuss thiscomplicated matter
with these owners and the community at-large.Together we can crafta resolutionthatboth
supports our localeconomy and addresses the concerns of otherresidents.
Mahalo forgivingus the opportunityto continuethisdiscussion!
Sincerely
Micah
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^^Clerk P'Zrv" r.
20ZZHOV-3 AH 8:18
'SFfICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
4 '
From:
Sent:
Susan Vickery<gifts9954@gmail.com>
Thursday, November 3,2022 5:10 AM
County Clerk
Bill159,Relatingto TransientAccommodation Caps
To:
Subject:
I You don'toftenget emailfrom gifts9954@gmail.com.Learnwhy thisisimportant
Please SUPPORT Bill159. The residents of Maui must be considered regardingqualityof life,water and housing.
Transient accommodation Cap isnecessary.
Mahalo,
Susan Vickery
Wailuku
1
RECEIVED
THE SHOPS im HOV -3 AH 8= 18
AT W A I L E A
-.rrlCc OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
November 2, 2022
Shops At Wailea
Proposed Statement in Support of Bill159 revisions:
Council Members:
On behalf of The Shops at Wailea, we support the latestrevisionsto proposed Bill159 (formerly
Resolution22-0):TransientAccommodation Caps.
Surrounded by hospitalityproperties,The Shops at Wailea recognizesthat hotelsand timeshares
support our retailers'and restaurants'businesses. Both provide employment, contributesignificant
taxes in RPT, GET, and TAT, and provide substantialcharitablegivingto the community. Bill159, as
proposed with itslatestrevisions,willhelp ensure thiscontinues.
Hotels jobs are also a vitalincome resource for localpeople, allowingfamiliesto remain on the
island;investin theircommunity; and support theirchildren and familiesfor generations to
come.
Bill159's updated regulationsaimed at controllingillegallyoperating vacation rentalswillalso
help ensure that fair,reliableand appealingvacation rentalsthat are incompliance with the
County's current strictdevelopment and zoning laws willbe maintained and even further
enhance our community.
We urge the County Council to pass Bill159
Mahalo,
OianAk/kitt
General Manager, The Shops At Wailea
3750 Wailea Alanui Drive,Suite B-51 Wailea, HI 96753 www.theshopsatwailea.com T: 808 8916770