MINUTES | hi-maui | County Council Meeting | 2022-01-07
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=1133,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

MlMMIiS
of the
COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
January 7, 2022
THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI. STATE OF
HAWAII, WAS HELD ONLINE ONLY VIA BLUEJEANS, ON FRIDAY. JANUARY 7. 2022,
BEGINNING AT 9:06 A.M., WITH CHAIR ALICE L LEE PRESIDING.
COUNCIL CHAIR ALICE L. LEE: Will the Maui County Council regular Council meeting of
January 7, please come to order.
Shuprobhat, Members. Shuprobhat.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK KATHY L. KAOHU: Chair, proceeding with roll call. Members should state
who, if anyone, is present with them as part of the roll call.
ROLL CALL
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Aloha and shuprobhat, Chair. Aloha kakahiaka my Maui
hikina. I'm broadcasting from home at the moment, in Hana, by myself. And Chair, did
you want me to share my resolution now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay. And real quickly
CHAIR LEE: And your congratulations, and your congratulations to Linda Dorset.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Congratulations to Ms. Dorset. And for my new. New Year's
resolution, I was awoken by the song by the Black Eyed Peas, "Where Is the Love?",
where it states, "to discriminate only generates hate. When you hate, then you're
bound to get Irate. Madness is what you demonstrate. And that's exactly how hate
works and operates. We got to set it straight. Take control of your mind and just
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 2
meditate. And let your soul just gravitate to the love." And so, that's my New Year's
resolution. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, excellent. Excellent. You know, 1 have that song on my iPod.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Mike, Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Aloha and Happy New Year, Madam Chair, and my
colleagues, and everyone else tuning in. Shuprobhat. And I'd like to first of all wish
Linda Dorset many, many blessings, and congratulations on her retirement. We're
surety going to miss you, Linda, and your vivacious personality. So, best, best of luck
to you and I'm sure you'll find other things to keep you busy within your years of
retirement.
As far as my New Year's resolution, very simple; wish everyone to stay safe and
healthy. And I'm also trying to take off those holiday pounds, i tell you, so hard to take
urn off the opu, especially as, as you get a little bit older.
And finally, I want to wish my wife and my best wife and only wife for 30 years, Cielo,
a very, very happy birthday. It's her birthday today, so when our Council meeting does
end, we're going to go out to dinner, so, so much for trying to lose weight. But anyway,
and I'm also, again, broadcasting from my residence here in Makawao. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Wonderful. Can we come with you to dinner?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Of course. E komo mai.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Aloha kakahiaka all and shuprobhat. I am broadcasting from my
district office, so knock on wood that I stay logged on. I seem to be having on and off
problems with BlueJeans. And in my office is my, one of my staffers Ellen McKinley.
She's in the outer office.
So, we, I guess we were asked to give a congratulations to Linda from Akaku. And I
want to really thank her for her service, her long-standing service for being such a
reliable Akaku employee and consultant, and staffer to the County Council when it
comes to our broadcasting for one of the most worthy organizations on the island, I
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 3
might add. I can't imagine what kind of a blowout we're going to have when Chivo
retires and . . . But I wish we would've, we would've gotten a resolution on, but cause
Linda's been just a stalwart part of that organization. So, thank you for your service to
the community, Linda.
And, and for my resolution, you know, 1 had the same resolution as far as working out,
eating healthy, losing weight. But my real resolution is to not beat myself up when that
doesn't happen. Cause we all know the best. . . plans, and you know, you do what
you can. And I think that's a good lesson, also, for everyone who's involved in
something worthy in the County, is to do what you can because if we all do a little
together, we can all do a lot. And, you know, just take that one step. So, thank you for
my opportunity.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. And also, you're home, not home alone, but in your office by
yourself?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah. No, I mentioned that Ellen was in the outer office.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright. Very good.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Good morning, Chair and Councilmembers. Shuprobhat to
ail of you, and everyone on the call, and everyone around. I'm alone in my office and
I'd like to congratulate, as well, Ms. Dorset for all of her hard work and making all of
this happen, because this is not my wheelhouse. I do not know how to work any kind
of media stuff, so we really need folks like her. So, thank you so much for helping us
for so long.
My, my New Year's resolution is, is, doesn't hold much water cause it's the same one
every year, I want to lose weight. And I bought myself some running shoes this year,
so one step. We'll see what happens with it. But yeah, that's it for me, so aloha. Thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 4
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you. Chair.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Aloha kakahiaka kakou and Hauoli Makahikihou. Shuprobhat
to all. I'm broadcasting live and direct from the West Maui District Office here in sunny
Lahaina at the Old Lahaina Center with my EA Angela who's more than six feet away.
Congratulations to Linda from Akaku. Now, the fun begins. Less tension, more
pension.
And for my New Year's resolution, similar to Gabe. It's kind of the same every year.
Towards December, I kind of fall off and then I have to renew in January and floss
more.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Gingivitis is real, and it affects heart health. So, if you guys
want to join me in trying to floss at least once  aday, our whole world would be much
brighter.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for those profound words.
Okay. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Happy New Year, everybody. And I have to say
Bangladesh, it is shuprobhat. And I left the meeting a little bit, just to get something
from Bangladesh. We have a really good family friend. Dr
can see this. But his mother created a cottage industry for other women in the country
and they would make these and sell it so that the women could have independence
and have some money to, you know, feed their families. And I, I, when you did that,
Alice, from Bangladesh, 1 had to honor Dr. ... , who's .. . who's passed away. But his
mother created this, and it just reminded me of the special people, you know, that make
up a country.
I don't know if you
Linda, you are retiring after many years. And the first thing I thought of when Alice
asked us to say a few words is, I wanted to say this; five, four, three, two, one, you're
on, right? So, happy retirement. Every time we talk to you, I think, you know, you were
very gracious as you have been dealing with us.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 5
And for my resolution, 1 had to think about this. But this is kind of a truth in my life. But
I resolve to do more of it is to bake many more cookies for my constituents, cause that's
what 1 do when I visit seniors. And I hope they start calling me "Cookie Yuki". So,
that's my resolution. And Alice, you wanted to make it funny, so that's what actually
Tyson Miyake calls me upstairs. He calls me, "Cookie Yuki". But Happy New Year's,
everybody.
And thank you, Alice, for honoring the Bangladesh. It's a country that has come a long
way, has struggled, amazing people. I've learned  alot through Dr. . . . when he was,
you know, a good family friend of ours. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, very good. Very good. Cookie Yuki, alright. Is that going to be your new
campaign motto?
Alright, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Pro Tern Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Aloha kakahiaka, Chair. And shuprobhat to all of my colleagues
out there and everyone else in TV land. 1 was just cracking up. So, Yuki, would you
spell cookie with a "k", or cookie with two "o's" or a "c", or what? I don't know, but that's
a nice, it has a nice ring to it. But I'm here in my office workspace and I am by myself.
Because I think out of all theLinda, I just want to say thank you so much.
Councilmembers, I'm probably one of those that forget to count in, countdown during
recess and I just forget these things about, about signing out, and so many mistakes I
make. But you're so, so very patient, you know, with me. And you're always willing to
tolerate all of my idiosyncrasies. So, I just want to say thank you so much, Linda, for
teaching me so much of how to be patient and how to be tolerant.
Which leads me into my New Year's resolution, which is my, I constantly, this has been
my New Year's resolution from the time I was a kid, always to be more patient, and
more tolerant, and more loving towards my fellow man. Because I think, like
Councilmember Paltin had said, that the world would be a brighter place. If I didn't
know her any better. I'd think she was making ...  acommercial. But nonetheless, but
thank you. Chair and thank you, everyone. And thank you very much, Linda. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you for those words.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 6
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Aloha kakahiaka kakou, my Molokai nui ahina. I am
at the Molokai District Office by myself here. Shuprobhat kakou.
Let's see, I'll echo the sentiments of my colleagues in congratulating Linda. Thank you
so much for all your hard work. . . . our conversations before I gavel into BFED
Committee meetings. I truly enjoyed your, your jokes and just your wonderful spirit.
So, congratulations and I hope you enjoy this next chapter in your life.
Happy birthday to Cielo. There's, there's so much. Members, there's so much
information so I. I was trying to jot down all the things.
Member Paltin, yes, I will join you in trying to floss at least once a day every day. I too
am guilty of not flossing on some days. I, 1 try my best.
Member, Member Sugimura, I hope they call you "Cookie Yuki" and not "Kooky Yuki".
We have to be careful for that longer, we don't want anyone calling you "kooky".
And then, you know. Member Sinenci, the, I thought we weren't going to be able to,
you know, who can go after all of that? i'll echo that more love is absolutely needed.
And for my resolution 2022, more vitamin sea, S-E-A. So, more time in the ocean and
more time with my children. I'll only have eight more years with my daughter and about
five more years with my son before they'll be spreading their wings and exploring the
world. So, I'm going to try to soak all of that in while I can. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Excellent resolution.
And for myself. Again, shuprobhat. I want to offer, I am here at home in my office
space with my trusty little dog Koa Lei Lee. And who will be two this year, by the way.
I want to offer my special congratulations and mahalo to Linda Dorset, who is retiring
from, or has retired from Akaku after 17 years. So, that's quite a stretch. Thank you
for your patience, Linda, while filming our meetings and dealing with our long hours,
our long speeches, and all the false starts and restarts. Thank you for taking care of
us. Now, you take good care of yourself and enjoy your retirement years.
And for my New Year's resolution, it is just like four others of your. Imagine a whole,
this is a majority, . . . weight and pounds and so, so did I. My resolution is to change
my exercise equipment in 2022, because I gained weight instead of losing weight in
2021. So, my love handles turned into grab bars. So, out with the old equipment. And
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 7
I think I'll do more walking instead. So, that takes care of our resolutions. Thank you
so much, Members, and for highlighting Linda Dorset.
Madam Clerk, may we continue?
PRESENT: COUNCILMEMBERS SHANE M. SINENCI, MICHAEL J.
MOLINA. GABRIEL JOHNSON. KELLY T. KING, TAMARA A.M.
PALTIN, YUKI LEI K. SUGIMURA, NATALIE A. KAMA. COUNCIL
VICE-CHAIR KEANI N.W. RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there are nine Members present, no Members absent, and no
Members excused. A quorum is present to conduct the business of the Council.
For the record, I am Kathy Kaohu, County Clerk. And also present from the Office of
the County Clerk are Deputy County Clerk James Krueger; and Legislative Division
staff Joyce Murashige, Lauren Saldana, and Dell Yoshida.
Joining the meeting from the Department of Corporation Counsel is Corporation
Counsel Moana Lutey and First Deputy Corporation Counsel Richelle Thomson.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I offer opening remarks this morning and it'll be short, very short.
OPENING REMARKS
The opening remarks were offered by Council Chair Alice Lee.
CHAIR LEE: Now, Members, please join me with the Pledge of Allegiance. Ready?
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Members of the Council rose and recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Let's see, before we proceed with today's agenda, may I please
request that everyone keep their microphones muted unless it is your time to speak.
Decorum shall be maintained at all times.
Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 8
COUNTY CLERK; Thank you, Chair. Proceeding with the presentation of testimony on
ceremonial resolutions. At this time, we do not have anybody signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with the ceremonial resolution.
CEREMONIAL RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-1
CONGRATULATING T. KOMODA STORE &
BAKERY OF MAKAWAO, MAUI, HAWAN ON ITS
IO5TH ANNIVERSARY
CHAIR LEE: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Mahalo and good morning, Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT THE RESOLUTION "CONGRATULATING
T. KOMODA STORE & BAKERY OF MAKAWAO, MAUI,
HAWAN ON ITS 105'^^ ANNIVERSARY".
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to adopt the
Resolution 22-1.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much. Madam Chair. May we have the Clerk
read the resolution?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 9
(The resolution was read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of ail, I'd like to
start off by thanking my staff and also Committee staff for preparing this resolution, and
to the Komoda's for graciously accepting this resolution or letting us do this resolution
for them.
This family and organization is a shining example of a very successful mom-and-pop
small business. It survived many historical events and economic downturns. Komoda
Store has brought happiness to the taste buds of generations of Upcountry, Maui
County, and State residents, as well as tourists from around the world. Komoda Store
& Bakery is truly a destination. No trip to Maui is complete without a visit to Komoda
Store.
Now, while we all enjoy their legendary products, which include stick donuts, butter
roils, and cream puffs, let's not forget the hard work, care and love that's put into these
products by the Komoda family and associates over the years.
As the Clerk mentioned, Komoda Store had very humble beginnings, starting off first
as a restaurant feeding plantation workers and cowboys back in the early 1900's and
then evolving into a bakery in 1947. And it takes  alot to survive as a bakery these
days, especially when competing against corporate businesses like Love's Bakery and
Krispy Kreme. But like many, we appreciate Komoda Store staying true to their roots,
as a small, humble, local family style store that's maintains the charm of our small
historical towns.
So, in conclusion, congratulations to the Komoda's and Shibuya's, and ail the rest of
their ohanas for this 105‘^ Anniversary celebration. And it is my hope that Komoda
Store can someday celebrate another 105 years of success. Mahalo, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more discussion?
Member Suglmura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, thank you. 1 too really appreciate Komoda Store.
And they're a big part of the Makawao community. And my experience with them is, i
see how much they give back, right? Here they're  astore that they sell out really fast,
they, the whole family gets up super early. Mike told me his stories about that. And
yet, they give to the, when the, this is pre-COVID when there was a veteran's ceremony
at the Makawao Veterans Cemetery. They would provide pastries for everybody who
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 10
showed up to go to the memorial service. So, we have boxes and boxes of these
donations from this family. You know, they're always giving back to the community,
helping Makawao Elementary down the street. But I have a, oh, and Third Friday,
when the town would open up, they would open up their parking lot and, you know,
they were present, they were ever present.
But I have a personal story about them, is that I shop there periodically and buy things
when I go to meetings. And one day, I walked in and their daughter said, "we owe you
money". And I said, "you do?". And I said, "how come?". And I guess I must have
walked away after I bought something, and I didn't take the change. And do you know,
I don't even know when it was, but they gave me back change. Amazing, right?
Integrity, honesty, they’re a small store, and I just couldn't believe they did that. But
that is really the flavor of the town. And I appreciate the Komoda family for what they
do, so I fully support this resolution.
Mr. Molina, thank you very much for doing this. Well-deserved family to be recognized
for what they've given to us for many, many years. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Thank you. Chair. And thank you, Member Molina, for bringing
this forward, 105 years, oh my goodness. First of all, I want to point out the irony of
half of us making New Year's resolutions to lose weight and our first resolution of the
year is to honor Maui's favorite donut shop. That's all ironic.
But having said that, i, I want to recognize that, that the Komoda's Bakery is part of two
things we're trying to do here. One is diversify the economy, because this is a type of
industry and local business that will survive with or without tourists, I believe. The
other, I don't know if I dropped of there. Can you still hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: The other, the other part of it is it's part of the circular economy.
And so, what we want to do going forward is promote more local business, promote
people who give back to the community and who are part of our ongoing circular
economy where the, where the revenues stays in the community, and the people who
are benefitting from this business, they're all part of the community. So, thank you for
150 years of that, to Komoda Store. And even though i don't get up there very often, I
do enjoy those cream puffs whenever somebody brings them into a meeting. So, just
appreciate you personally, but also, on the larger scale as a really important part of our
ongoing economy. Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 11
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Members? Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Oh gosh, I just want to share  astory. It was just so funny thinking
about it. You know, when my dad was still alive, he was the president of the VFW.
And we would always go to Makawao Cemetery on Veterans Day. And so, because
he went and my brothers and sisters were vets, and we were military family, we'd all
go and take all my kids. And it got to the point where my son, he would say, "Ma, going
get Komoda Bakery up there?". I said, "Son, we're not going there to eat pastries.
We're going to honor the vets who have died for your freedom". He says, "yeah, I
know, Ma, but they going get?" I thought, I don't know, but I'm not going for that, son.
So, ever since then, now my son has moved away, he doesn't live here anymore, but
when he does come home, that's the first place he goes, is Komoda's. And you know,
I think that what small stores like this do for us, is that they create these memories in
our hearts, and they create these wonderful feelings of who we are as a community
and how that community extends out and beyond just Makawao. So, I'm just so grateful
for Member Molina for bringing this forward, and for the Komoda Bakery. And I do
hope you stay here for the next 200 years. So, thank you, Chair. And thank you,
Member Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Pro Tern Kama. Anybody else want to say a few words about-
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. And mahalo. Member Molina, for this
resolution. My congratulations, as well. I echo the sentiments of my colleagues in their
congratulations, as well as Member Molina. You're making us all hungry when you
were naming all the donuts that they're known for. You know, the Komoda Bakery has
been synonymous, such a icon, as synonymous with Makawao just as Molokai
Kanemitsu, Molokai bread, hot bread, has become synonymous with Molokai. And just
a lot of fond memories growing up enjoying all these pastries. Mahalo for continuing
to contribute to that tight-knit close family-oriented lifestyle that we so value and cherish
in Maui County. And it's, you know, these families, these businesses, these community
members that really hold true and hold on to that which makes Maui County so special.
So, mahalo and congratulations again. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Anyone else?
Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 12
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Thank you to Calvin and Betty Shibuya. So
nice to see you. even virtually. I just, I don't know what more can be said than what's
already been said. But you know, we don't, in our family, we no take chances, we call
ahead and .... One time, my husband was up there early in the morning, and he was
waiting in his car, and on his phone, and he looked up and the line was already down
the sidewalk. And after that, always call ahead. That's, that's my best advice. And
thank you so much for all the years of cream puffs. Every time we go up Makawao, if
it's early in the morning, we'll be there. Congratulations.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else. Members? If not, I would like to also add my congratulations and
mahalo to the Shibuya family and the Komodo family, and all the families that are a
part of the Komoda Store. As a resident of Makawao for many years, I was a regular
customer at Komoda Store, just love all the pastries and especially the cream puffs.
But they're also known for their chantilly cakes. Again, you know, a lot of things were
already said about the wonderful things that you've contributed to our community. We
really appreciate what all, all that you've done as a family. And hope to see you
continue the business and keep that mom-and-pop store alive and well in Old Makawao
Town. Thank you so much. Now, Members, are we ready to vote?
All those in favor of the motion, please say "aye" and raise your hands.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: All "ayes", nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Again, congratulations. And I think we may have someone here to say something?
Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair. We have Calvin and Betty
Shibuya online. I'd like to give them an opportunity to talk. See, all this talk about the
pastries, I getting the shakes already. And also. Members, you gotta try the turnovers
and the cream-filled malasadas and pies is just to die for. But anyway. I'd like to ask
Calvin and Betty to say a few words.
CHAIR LEE: Of course. Calvin. Mr. Shibuya, Betty Shibuya, would you like to say
something?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 13
MR. CALVIN SHIBUYA: Hi. This is, I'm Calvin. Thank you, Mike, for making this resolution
possible and to Chairman Alice Lee and the rest of the Councilmembers. Shuprobhat.
I appreciate all the wonderful comments that you had made about our, our business. I
would be remiss by not saying thank you to all the people of Maui County, the
community that we support here in Makawao, for supporting us throughout the years.
It would never be possible for us to be in business without their, their support.
And also, most importantly, I'd like to say thank you to my workers. My workers that
show up at 12:00 midnight to start baking and working for 12 hours plus throughout the
past three months, where we've had the problems with manpower shortage and the
pandemic problems. And again, thank you, Mike, for making this possible, and to all
the Councilmembers for your wonderful comments. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha and mahalo. Mrs. Shibuya, would you like to say something?
MRS. BETTY SHIBUYA: Thank you very much everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Mike, any last words?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, again, thank you, Calvin and Betty, for what you've
established in Maui County through many, many years. And as the comments that
was mentioned from my colleagues, is you just certainly reflect that small town charm
and help make Maui County the special place it is. So, thank you. Thank you so much.
And we'll, we'll be up there next week. I heard you're reopening up next week Monday,
yeah, so, everybody, like Member Paltin said, call ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. And there went all the New Year's resolutions, right out the door.
Thank you again and appreciate you being here with us.
Madam Clerk, may we have the next resolution. But before that, Members are there
any objections to closing testimony on ceremonial resolutions only.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: No, objections, so ordered.
Madam Clerk, Resolution 22-2.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 14
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-2
CONGRATULATING MAUI COUNTY WINNERS
AT THE 2021 HAWAI‘1 ACADEMY OF
RECORDING ARTS' NA HOKU HANOHANO
AWARDS
CHAIR LEE: Member, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you. Chair
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENTITLED "CONGRATULATING MAUI COUNTY WINNERS AT
THE 2021 HAWAI‘1 ACADEMY OF RECORDING ARTS'
NA HOKO HANOHANO AWARDS", AND I ALSO HAVE AN ASF,
CHAIR.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, what is your amendment?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So because we had so many winners, I apologize to my
fellow Councilmembers, but when we submitted the resolution, we had omitted two
So this amendment will add the, the, the two more WHEREAS's to thewinners,
resolution, is what this does and if I could read it. Chair. If I could add it and then I'll
ask the Chair with your permission, I'll ask the Clerk with your permission to read the
resolution in it's entirely.
SO I MOVE TO INSERT AFTER THE 9TH "WHEREAS'
CLAUSE THE FOLLOWING:
WHEREAS. MAUI NON-PROFIT NORTH BEACH WEST MAUI
BEACH BENEFIT FUND, ALONG WITH PRODUCERS
ZACHARY ALAKA‘1 LUM AND NICHOLAS KEALI'I LUM, WERE
AWARDED COMPILATION ALBUM OF THE YEAR
(PRODUCER'S AWARD) FOR "LEI NAHONOAPI'ILANI:
NA MELE HOU;" AND
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 15
WHEREAS, U’lLANI TANIGAWA LUM, A MAKAWAO NATIVE
AND HULA PRACTITIONER WITH HALAU NA LEI KAUMAKA
O UKA UNDER THE DIRECTION OF KUMU HULA NAPUA
GREIG, ALONG WITH HER HUSBAND ZACHARY ALAKA‘1
LUM WERE AWARDED THE LINER NOTES AWARD FOR
COMPILATION HULIAMAHI, VOLUME ONE;
AND FURTHER TO AMEND SECTION 2 OF THE "BE IT
RESOLVED" CLAUSE AS FOLLOWS:
2. THAT CERTIFIED COPIES OF THIS RESOLUTION BE
TRANSMITTED TO LUKELA KEALA, MAKAPU HO'OPII,
JOSHUA KAHELE, KALEO PHILLIPS. KALANI PEA. MICHAEL
CASIL. KALANI MILES. AND THIS IS THE INSERT IS TO ADD
THE PEOPLE THAT I HAD MISSED EARLIER, SO JACKIE
SPECKTOR, NORTH BEACH WEST MAUI BENEFITS FUND
BOARD PRESIDENT, LANCE D. COLLINS, NORTH BEACH
WEST MAUI BENEFIT FUND, ZACHARY ALAKA‘1 LUM,
NICHOLAS KEALI‘1 LUM. U'lLANI TANIGAWA LUM. AND THE
HONORABLE MICHAEL P. VICTORINO, MAYOR.
So what this does is to add the people or the, the categories that I had missed earlier
and I apologize Members, it's kind of unusual. But I beg for your approval of this.
CHAIR LEE: Is there a second for the.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh. thank you.
CHAIR LEE: And we already heard the discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, thank you. So I guess I have to move to waive
Rule 19.C. to enable us to pass the amended resolution today. Thank you for your
seconds.
Chair may I please ask the Clerk to read the resolution in its entirety with the
amendments you just allowed to be included.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 16
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
(The resolution ivas read in its entirety.)
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Do we, do we take a vote now on the, on the Rule, waiving the Rule, Council
Rule. Is that necessary?
COUNTY CLERK: Urn, so the ASF hasn't been voted on yet, and so that would be the first
step, and then amend the Rules, and then the main motion as amended.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Waive the Rules.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, waive the Rules. Okay, when you say vote on the ASF, you mean vote
on the, on the motion to amend.
COUNTY CLERK: The amendment, yes.
CHAIR LEE: The amendment, that first, and then waive the Rule, and then the, the main
motion, as amended.
COUNTY CLERK: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: Okay? Any more discussion. Member Sugimura, on your amendment.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I think I explained it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? If not all those in favor of the amendment, please raise your
hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 17
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now we, your motion on to waive the Rule. Member Sugimura.
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA;
I MOVE TO WAIVE RULE 19.C. TO ENABLE US TO PASS THE
AMENDED RESOLUTION TODAY.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to waive the Rule,
Council Rule so we can take action today. Any more discussion? If not all those in
favor, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries,
So we are now able to vote on the main motion, as amended. Any more discussion?
All those in favor of the main. More discussion? All those in favor of the main motion,
as amended, please raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Thank you. Is, are there people here to speak to the motion, I mean to the resolution.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 18
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Yes, so we do have people here to speak and, but before
I do that, I just wanted to thank Kaena Brown. I saw her at the swearing in of the Police
Chief and she said there are so many winners for Na Hoku that we should recognize.
And I want to, I, I had a email exchange with her last night just thanking her again, and
that's who kind of put the thought in. And she said that, and, and you could tell right,
the number of winners that we had from Maui because we have so much talent.
So I wanted to thank everybody on that and for allowing me to make the resolution, I
mean the amendments. Daryl from my office had written it and then, and wasn't feeling
well so for a while, he's back and he's fine. But during that time I guess we had lost
track of maybe some of the winners. So thank you for allowing me to make this
amendment to complete the list of the many talented Na Hoku award winners.
To speak today, we have Kalani Pe'a, who as you know, besides winning the Na Hoku
also is a Grammy Award winner. But he wants to say a few words. Lance Collins,
which I was pleased to see his name because I didn't know he had, he dabbled in the
music industry also. U'ilani Tanigawa Lum and Zachary Lum. So first Kalani Pe'a. I
saw him log in.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Pe'a.
MR. KALANI PE'A: Oh, aloha kakou. Aloha.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Aloha, aloha, aloha 2022 to all of you. Thank you, Yuki Lei, for creating this resolution.
. . . aloha and mahalo ia oe. Can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. PE'A: Can you hear me. Thank you. I'm so honored to represent my kupuna. And I'm
so honored to be one of the vessels, the wa'a to share Hawaiian music that describes
and define who we are as people of Maui and Hawaii. I love writing music about people
I love, places I love. And these things that we do are not for ourselves. These
accolades do not define who we are. It's the music and the stories that we tell and so
that our next generation can truly elaborate the stories that was once told by our
kupuna.
So I mahalo, mahalo Yuki, for allowing me to wake up early this morning because I'm
on entertainment hours. I normally don't wake up this early. But you guys got me
going because I haven't been affected, I, I personally by this, this virus. I know loved
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 19
ones who have passed on and those who were affected. But I blame Komoda's Bakery
for the momona virus that they gave me.
I think my resolution and my biggest aspiration being a Grammy nominated artist, the
sole artist for my third album Kau Ka Pe‘a. My last name is Pe‘a, which means sailboat,
which means chart your sail and journey. My great great grandparents are fishermen
of Kalapana. My maternal grandparents are from Hana and Keanae and they moved
their Ghana to Keaukaha, Hilo, Hawaii. So I have ties to Maui and the Big Island of
Hawaii. And the third album Kau Ka Pe‘a talks about all of us creating our own journey
as we're pivoting and adapting to change.
When I heard that the Grammys were postponed, PTSD came to me as a musician
because we had shows and tours cancelled, and this affects everybody. But as we
change and go through this effective change. I think for me the biggest aspiration is to
be happy and continue to show love for one another and for people and, and those we
encounter during this pandemic, we continue to show passion and be compassionate.
And I think that's the key to a thriving lahui and a thriving, driving community here on
Maui.
So again, mahalo nui, I can't wait to bedazzle myself up with $99 Amazon sequin
jackets and my, my, my purplelicious aloha shirts for the Grammy Awards. But as we
continue to be patient like what Tasha Kama says, as we continue to be diligent and,
and, and industrious and continue to be passionate, I think we can thrive as one, so
mahalo, mahalo, mahalo. Mahalo, Maui County, Aloha nui.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha and mahalo for those beautiful words. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Member Sugimura, you want to invite anyone else?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, so I think Lance Collins, U'ilani Tanigawa Lum, and
Zachary Lum, also. I, I saw Lance Collins, there he is, I saw him.
MR. LANCE COLLINS; Aloha, good morning.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Good morning.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
Shuprobhat and aloha kakahiaka kakou. I just wanted to thank
Councilmember Sugimura and the County Council for honoring the Lei Nahonoapi'ilani
project and also . . . the . . . project as well. But I just wanted to briefly mention how
important culture and the arts is to our community. And that projects like Lei
MR. COLLINS:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 20
Nahonoapi'ilani which attempt to bridge the past with the future, with the use of mele,
the Hawaiian language, and music is so vitally important. And at a time where we're
just hearing now that many well-loved radio personalities in the Hawaiian music
community have all been fired due to budget cuts or corporate reprioritization of radio,
it's very important to value and honor the important cultural work that is being done.
And its greatly appreciated that you folks are honoring it and only request that you
continue, continue to do so in the future. So mahato nui loa for the, the honor for us
and for everybody that's honored today. And also, congratulations to Linda Dorsett,
it's, it's, it's very sad that, that she's retiring, but congratulations to her and Komoda
shop. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha, any questions for Mr. Collins. If not, thank you very much.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So U'ilani Tanigawa Lum and Zachary Lum. Are they on?
I didn't see them. Oh there.
MS. U'lLANI TANIGAWA LUM: Aloha kakou. Sorry, little bit of feedback. Aloha nui, aloha
nui mai kakou.
(Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Mahalo nui forthis honor today and mahalo nui Councilmember Sugimura in particular.
As many of you folks know I was born and raised here on Maui and so to be honest, I
grew up here not knowing about some critical issues like water being sucked out of
both sides of our islands and our island. And when I got my bachelors and masters
degrees and eventually my JD, this knowledge really ignited a passion for justice and
empowering our communities.
So I think what's special for me today about the Na Hoku Award for liner notes and
especially this honor today is both, this idea of context and the acknowledgement of
our cultural practices. And so while liner notes to an album provide important
information about the songs and their stories, this album, Huliamahi, Vol. 1, also
highlights the way law and cultural practice can be and are intertwined, they support
one another. And that's because our laws in Hawaii are unique. They're based on our
peoples' world views and practices.
So when we remember that these practices are a resource, we can utilize them as
powerful tools for change, as tools for aloha aina and justice. And the mele on this
album tell these stories. So it's this idea that I, I hope to advance, not only in liner
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 21
notes, but in my work as an attorney, my work at Ka Huli Ao Center for Excellence in
Native Hawaiian Law, as a hula practitioner, and as a mom. So I just want to
acknowledge that this work is best done together as we huliamahi, and also well just
a, a really big mahalo nui ao kou for this acknowledgement and honor, and especially
for all your work for, for our community, taking on this kuleana to malama our home
and, and this wonderful place. So mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any other comments or questions? If not Member
Sugimura do we have Zachary. Is Zachary?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Zachary.
MR. ZACHARY LUM: Hi, aloha kakou.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. LUM: (Spoke in Hawaiian.)
Na Hoku Hanohano Awards. My name is Zachary Lum and I just really want to express
my really brief but very sincere mahalo to each and every one of you Councilmembers
for this acknowledgement of what on the surface may seem to simply be an award
show for our community's music. But I do want to reassure us that what the Na Hoku
Hanohano Awards represents from my personal perspective is the acknowledgement
of a, the longest standing cultural practice that we have here in Hawaii.
Many of us and I know this, this particular County Council is very aware of hula as, as
a very integral traditional cultural practice. And I want to add onto that as well that mele
is really the history book that takes us to time in memorial. The Na Hoku Hanohano
Awards is, is our most contemporary expression of what mele is today. And the
beautiful thing about that is for your acknowledgement of, of the value of this, you're
not only acknowledging this industry, you're acknowledging this culture, you're
acknowledging this people, you're acknowledging this community of practitioners who
really are the storytellers that connect us to the very past, the very future, to very right
now, if that's even a term.
I, I really want to just say mahalo and with those brief words, echo everything that has
been said before me as well, especially Komoda Bakery. Aloha nui.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, that was beautiful. Chair, if there are any other,
Jordan from my office contacted every single winner to see if they would like to log on
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 22
and if it was like normal practice, you know we would be giving leis to everybody and,
and having them come up to the podium. But in this case, if there's anybody who's still
on, I would love to take a, a shot of everybody on. So if you could, if you could prevail
yourself and log on. Or did everybody leave? I guess they left, ah shucks. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh there, okay, there, there, there. I want to do a, did
Kalani, there you are Kalani. And what about U'i, did U'i, oh yay. Thank you all of you.
I'm going to take a picture. Okay, thank you. Thank you, everybody, yeah, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, congratulations, congratulations.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, thank you. Sorry, we cannot give you leis like
in, in real life you would have been given each of you leis. Certified copies of the reso,
oh, there's Lance, okay wait, let's take this again. Oh, can everybody log on again?
Okay, one, two, three. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Bye.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I'll post on Facebook. Thank you for all your talent.
SET THE CONSENT CALENDAR
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we have to move on now. Members at this time we will set the Consent
Calendar. As a reminder, the calendar can still be adjusted even after it is set. Are
there any requested changes to the Consent Calendar at this time? Alright. Any
objections to setting the Consent Calendar?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, the Consent Calendar is set.
Ms. Clerk, please proceed with testimony.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with the presentation of testimony on agenda items.
Members of the public may testify by connecting to the Council's online meeting by
phone or video conference through the information posted on today's agenda.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 23
Individuals connected by phone are currently on mute and will be unmuted when it is
their time to testify. Individuals connected by videoconference should keep both their
video and microphones off, and should turn them on only when it is their time to testify.
Testimony is limited to the items listed on the agenda, and individuals may testify for
up to three minutes per item. When testifying, please state your name and the name
of any organization you represent, as well as the items on which you will be testifying.
Please also identify to the Council if you are a paid lobbyist.
After your testimony has concluded, please disconnect from BlueJeans. Once the
testimony period is closed, only the Councilmembers, staff, and designated resource
persons will be connected to the meeting. All other individuals will be disconnected.
The remainder of the meeting can be viewed on Akaku: Maui Community Media or on
mauicounty.ledgister.com. Individuals may also be disconnected from the meeting at
any time for breaking decorum.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Yes.
CHAIR LEE: How many people are signed up to testify?
COUNTY CLERK: Over 50, but let me look, give you  anumber.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so Members, Members obviously we have a lot of people signed up to
testify and we need to get through the day. I ask you to keep your questions brief and,
you know, have as little discussion as possible because you know, we, we need to
finish by the end of the day. Alright, Madam Clerk, please call the first testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our first testifier is Keisa Liu. To be followed by Tamara Koller.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
PRESENTATION OF ORAL TESTIMONY
MS. KEISA LU (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-6 & 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-5):
Good morning. Aloha my name is Keisa Liu and I'm here to testify on three agenda
items today, CC 22-6, CC 22-9, and Resolution 22-5. I'll be starting with 22-6. I
understand Maui County received a COVID grant of roughly $17.5 million from ARPA
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 24
CSLFRF and NEUs. We are currently awaiting the second half of those monies to be
dispersed, forgive me for not knowing the limitations of how the money can be spent
as we move further. I would like the Council to consider investing in mental health
services, creative housing solutions, and support services for our community.
Creative solutions are not pipe dreams and should not be downgraded as sparkles and
fantasies. Previous solutions are about working with what you have to provide
solutions in desperate times. And if you don't feel like we are living in desperate times
now you soon will. Boxing ourselves in by implementing big city ideas without the
flexibility of recognizing the limitations of living in a rural community on finite land will
not address our housing crisis adequately. Ignoring the impact poor mental health has
on a person's capacity to function at the levels expected to obtain and retain housing
is heartless and detrimental to our community as  awhole.
I ask that some of these monies be used to acquire land for transitional housing and
encampments, increase trauma and form behavioral health programs, tackle the digital
divide for our no income and low-income residents ,and increase access to health care,
especially as it relates to COVID, mental and behavioral health. The reality is, is we're
going to see the impact of COVID that extends well beyond the physical symptoms,
and we need to be prepared. People on the lowest rungs of the income brackets are
already suffering and dying because of the lack of access to basic resources. And
know that many of our residents are standing at the precipice of stability. Please
consider using the Federal monies to address these concerns.
Moving on to CC 22-9. Now full disclosure, i did take the LSAT in anticipation of
becoming a lawyer because I love a good argument. So you can imagine my
disappointment when I read the Mayor's reasonings for vetoing the moratorium bill. He
gave us three reasons, unintended consequences, conversion of apartments to short
term rentals, and lack of transparency and public input.
As a resident of Maui County, I would like to address his three concerns:
1) Unintended consequences of residents renting out personal vehicles due to the
shortfall of rental vehicles. The rental company shipped out their cars and did not ship
them back. Once the numbers came up, the residents capitalized on that need and
the monies went straight into the pockets of our local residents, not to the big rental
companies, and I find that kind of interesting.
2) The moratorium may encourage people to convert their residential units to short
term rental units, which is a good point. I wonder if there's a body of people charged
with protecting residents from predatory behaviors stoked by the tourism industry that
could create laws to make sure that we're safe. Like maybe their title could literally be
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 25
the definition of that. And here's an idea, the Council and Mayor could also create a
tax incentive program that encourages landlords to do long-term rentals. ... I bet y'all
can come up with a few others, I know you're smart.
3) Lack of transparency and public input. Well I am public providing input on something
I previously provided input on, on a meeting that was recorded and made available for
everyone to see and hear. Like was he not listening to us? And maybe that's why he
didn't hear public input. Anyways, 1 read the bill because he said something about
some amendments or whatever as it was attached to the Mayor's veto, and I will just
say once again, I would like to support the moratorium, so please make it happen.
Lastly Resolution 22-5,1 fully support standing in solidarity with our brothers and sisters
on Oahu who have been poisoned by the U.S. Navy. The Council has a duty to protect
and preserve our natural resources and the residents who rely on them. The
negligence of the U.S. Navy at KapukakT makes me wonder if, what they are doing
here. If they are going to poison the water, it means the water does not matter to them.
If they are going to poison military families, their own people, then it must mean their
people are disposable to them. Kind of seems like they don't care about the integrity
of the land or the water or the people.
So of course I went to the mission statement of the U.S. Navy, and it reads "The United
States as a maritime nation, and the U.S. Navy protects America at sea. Alongside
our allies, allies and partners, we defend freedom, preserve economic prosperity, and
keep the seas open and free. Our nation is engaged in long-term competition. To
defend American interests around the globe, the U.S. Navy must remain prepared to
execute our timeless role, as directed by the Congress and President."
Now I only have like a minute left so I can't pick apart the mission statement as right
now as it relates to the occupation of the Hawaiian Kingdom. But I can say this, I find
it kind of interesting because when we talk about tourism, we don't want people who
don't respect the culture, natural resources, or the people. The U.S. Navy is arguably
a malihini, and they are blatantly disrespecting all of that. And unless they turn around
and start giving Hawaii the respect that it deserves, 1 think that phrase applies to them.
You know the one ... go home. Mahalo for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Tamara Koiler. To be followed by Dr. Genesis Young.
CHAIR LEE: Morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 26
MS. TAMARA KOLLER (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-5):
Good morning, Members of the Council. I'm test, I will be testifying on, on County
Communication 22-9 as well as Resolution 22-15, 5, excuse me. I, I read through the
bill, very, very detailed and um I was kind of, I was disturbed with the Mayor's letter.
Urn? The first item that he, one of his reasons was unintended consequences to the
community, and he referred to this on the, on the rental cars and individuals using their
own car, you know renting out their cars. You know you can have unintended
consequences in any legislation that you do. You know, you, you think that you've
gone through and, and looked at all things, but if there's a problem, what you do is you
address it by future amendments. So I that is just, I . . . ridiculous, the reason why he
didn't want it.
Also, the conversion of apartments to short-term rentals. Okay, it's a moratorium on
the short-term rentals. Well, if there's a moratorium and you have regulations in place
that you're not, you know, to add short-term rentals, how are you doing this, you know.
Where, you know, it just to me is, is pretty ridiculous. You can, for one thing is other
members of the community if they realize that people in their neighborhood are adding
new short-term rentals, they can turn that into the County, into the Planning Department
and you, you will be taking action.
The third one was really my, that i had the most trouble with the lack of transparency
and public input. And I'm thinking that what what the, my notes excuse me. Okay, the
Maui island Plan which you reference in the purpose of this bill included a policy for
daily visitor population not to exceed one-third of the resident population. Well, in 2019
the average daily census ratio, average daily census was 70,000. And the population
of the island was 150. Now if you take, you figure that out 70 and 150 that's more than
third, one third of the population. So we've already exceeded what was required in the
Maui County Plan.
I'm thinking that what the Mayor. . . was meaning in this public input is he was looking
at it as not enough people in the meetings who testified previously on this bill were
those who profit from the building of the visitor accommodations.  Now in those
meetings you heard voices. I may not have testified at that time, but I look at the, the
testimony afterwards. I just want to remind, you know, and I, I, the purpose of the
highlights, this takes it back to what the Maui Island Plan says.
And you have a TIG that you're going to be looking at details after this temporary
moratorium and that's what you should address. But this bill needs to. I'm fully in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 27
support of it and I think you need to override the Mayor's veto. And I hope those
Members that voted no on the original bill take a look at it and seriously think are you
supporting what your residents wanted you to support? Or are you supporting the
developers? Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions for the testifier? if not, thank you very much. May we have the
next one.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Dr. Genesis Young. To be followed by Sam Spurrier.
DR. GENESIS YOUNG (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-6):
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, good morning,
DR. YOUNG: Good morning, I wanted to testify on Resolution 22-6,1 think it’s good to regulate
the wireless communications, and I think it be best if it's referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee. I wanted to support that resolution.
And then the second one I wanted to talk about is CC 22-9, Bill 148 and ask you to
please override the Mayor's veto to the accommodation moratorium. . . . only a
moratorium, it only pauses the construction of new development giving us time with the
TIG to consider options to truly limit and manage our excess tourist numbers as was
mentioned by the previous speaker. This is necessary, we do not need more
accommodations, and this will not damage our economy, but pause and allow us to
realign. This permits us to take that, that pause to see how we can properly manage
things and it should help us focus the, the ample construction jobs onto affordable
housing and other building that we need. We really have to get a handle on our, our
tourism numbers to protect the quality of life of the residents and the visitor industry
alike. The golden goose is being killed by overtourism right now, so it's really important
that we find a way to control, manage our tourism numbers.
And this is, this is for everyone, this isn't just, just for, for me or, or for, for the island or
for the environment, or for Hawaiians, this is also for the visitor industry and the
construction industry. We must think long term. I implore the construction community
and developers to look long term. There is more than enough construction permits to
last for the years of the moratorium. Frankly given how long it takes to permit in this
County cause our shelter for homeless youth is being on the boards, waiting for a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 28
permit for over two years now. And we still don't have our permits, so you know two-
year moratorium is not going to even touch the, the slow things down.
There's lots of construction that can happen that's already been permitted, and the
permitting process will continue, and they'll just be ready to go in two years with the
new construction, so you know nothing, nothing is going to really change. What's going
to change is we have time to look at, with the TIG how to really, really try to get a handle
on this in a, in a thorough investigated manner.
So 1 would ask the, the construction company people, the developers, and the people
that are opposing this to really look long term and recognize how important this is for
everyone, for the quality of life for ail residents on this island, for the quality of our
tourism industry and for its long-term maintenance. And for the ability for us to take
this time to pause and find a way to diversify our economy away from tourism so we all
have jobs, so we all can work here, we all can enjoy this beautiful land that, that, that
we live on.
This will help us all and we really need to focus more on affordable housing, frankly,
renovation and infrastructure regeneration than we do on building more
accommodationsfortourists we don't need. We need high quality tourism over quantity
tourism. It's very, very important. You don't control these tourism numbers, the
numbers of tourists will kill us, will kill our golden goose, will kill. . . highly support this
obviously so please override the veto. I'm complete, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not thank you very much. May we
have the next testifier.
MR. SAM SPURRIER (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha and good morning. Chair Lee and Maui County Councilmembers. My name is
Sam Spurrier, I'm a resident of Kihei. A husband,  afather of five, 1 enjoy volunteering
with my church, community, and mentoring students, i was born and raised in the island
of Oahu on the North Shore and have been in the hospitality industry for the last
15 years, with 10 of them here in Maui. I'm happy to be here today and thank you for
the inspirational start and beginning to this meeting in, in appreciating many of those
who contribute greatly to the community. It's a privilege to share testimony on behalf
of the resort, Wailea Beach Resort and the tourism industry to request your
consideration voting to sustain Maui Mayor Michael Victorino's veto of Bill 148 and
CC 22-9.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 29
We know there are various continued efforts to diversify our economy and most
importantly the robust focus with community and industry engagement on well thought
out solutions to find a balance between the needs of local residents first and foremost
as they are those who call Maui home and make Maui what it is as a special place, and
visitors who we welcome to our islands with the aloha spirit and who strive to embrace
our culture.
Tourism will remain the strongest economic driver, but it is vital that we also support
our communities at the same time. 1 join many who remain steadfast in our belief that
Bill 148 is not the answer. It may be the easiest thing, but I don't believe that it is the
right thing. Rather the attention prioritization should be on managing and addressing
what has been mentioned, illegal short-term vacation rental units, an issue that hasn't
seen much change or improvement. The last thing we need to do right now as we
strive to set our future generations up for success is to depress the market for other
sectors of the economy including the construction industry and other various skill
trades. It is simple, the issuance of building permits means more projects, more jobs,
and more opportunities for all Maui residents.
The proposed moratorium will deter investment, reduce jobs, and limit other
contributions to the community. As we all know and have seen, the visitor industry
does support many ancillary businesses from construction jobs to restaurants and
many more. Ultimately, we need Maui residents to stay in Maui and all these things
will make that possible.
For all reasons that I mentioned today, we ask that you carefully consider your
recommended moratorium on the issuance of building permits while our industry
continues to sustain a recovering community that will be thriving once again. Mahalo
for your time and consideration. Have a great day.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much. May we
have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Christopher Delaunay. To be followed by Mike
Lovediro.
MR. CHRISTOPHER DELAUNAY, PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP (testifying on
County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Chris Delaunay with Pacific Resource Partnership. I'm a
registered lobbyist and I'm here to testify in opposition to Bill 148, declaring a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 30
moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. I respectfully request that this
Council uphold the Mayor's veto of this bill.
A moratorium is not going to stop or limit the amount of people from traveling to Maui.
This moratorium will not prevent airplanes from bringing people to Maui. It will not
benefit Maui's economy, and it will not alleviate Maui's housing crisis. Instead, if
enacted into law, Bill 148 will likely push visitors to seek accommodations outside of
lands or areas designated for resort use to Maui's residential neighborhoods. Visitors
will stay at legal or illegal short-term rentals in Maui's neighborhoods which will only
erode the quality of life for Maui residents. If homeowners rent their homes to visitors,
this will equate to fewer housing units for Maui residents which will further intensify
Maui's housing crisis.
Lastly limiting visitor accommodations will not stimulate Maui's economy. Instead, it
only limits the growth of other industries like construction, retail, restaurants, and many
small businesses that provide services and goods to hotels within resort districts. Let's
keep Maui, Maui's residential neighborhoods for Maui residents, and allow Maui hotels
to make improvements to provide accommodations to visitors within designated hotel
districts. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members any questions? If not, may we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is my Mike Lovediro. To be followed by Jonathan Likeke
Scheuer.
MR. MIKE LOVEDIRO. INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED
CRAFTWORKERS, LOCAL 1 (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Michael Lovediro, I'm a business agent with the
International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, Local 1. As a business
agent with Local 1, I work with our contractors, many of whom are locally owned. Our
contractors specialize in high quality work involving stone, tile, marble, and more. The
bread and butter of our contractors' work on Maui is hotels because hotels have high
standards for the type of work on their properties.
If the, where am I sorry. The proposed Bill 141 [sic] goes into effect, our members and
contractors will find it nearly impossible to find stable work. They would have a hard
time providing for their families. Some people have said don't worry, it'll be just a few,
few years. However, during these few years our contractors would surely close down
their Maui operations. If the contractors, our contractors close down on Maui, and have
to move elsewhere, I don't see them being able to open back up very easily on Maui.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 31
When it ends, the void would simply be filled by more mainland contractors coming in.
This is not what we want to see. It would harm our members and also our contractors
and would create an even worse situation after it expires. Please do not override the
Mayor's veto of Bill 148. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members any questions? if not, thank you very much.
Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Mr. Lovido/'s/cy, sorry. Your
name's not popping up anymore. Mahalo for your testimony this morning. I'm going
to ask you this question as I'm sure there are other labor unions on here that will be
echoing the same sentiments. My question has been, and it's never been answered,
at what point does the industry stop growing so that.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair, Vice-Chair. You're asking  aclarification question of the testifier.
Something he already testified on. Something he already testified on.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, he talked about job grov\/th and how it will affect
his, so that that's my clarifying question. Mahalo, Chair.
MR. LOVEDIRO: Sorry, I missed that, I ran out to the bathroom real quick, sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Like the whole thing or, or some of it.
MR. LOVEDIRO: Yeah, as soon as, Chair said if there's any questions, nobody had, so I ran
out. Sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay. Okay, so you didn't hear me . . . Mahalo,
Mr. Lovediro for your testimony. My question is clarifying what you're saying about
how it will impact your members. You're the business agent of a labor union and what
I said was that there will be urn, I, a lot of testimony after you echoing the same
sentiments. And that at no point at this time with Bill 148 or Member King's moratorium
bill did we ever get an answer about at what point is it, is it enough. . . . growth of the
tourism industry so that labor unions have jobs. There has to be some kind of
sustainability and there's never been any alternatives proposed by the labor unions.
So at what point does, do we just continue to grow endlessly.
MR. LOVEDIRO: Well. I can't answer that question of what point yeah. But this isn't only
about tourism, right? We do have local residents that do stay at hotels and this kind of
places, so it can affect them also, correct?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 32
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're talking about them, about local people staying
at hotels?
MR. LOVEDIRO: Yeah, cause it's not only about tourism coming to hotels is what I'm saying
right. More expanded hotels, the more local people can stay there, which would
generate money locally.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well so my, my question was clarifying your
testimony regarding the need for jobs for your members cause you're a business agent
for a labor union, right?
MR. LOVEDIRO: Yes. Okay, so with, if, if-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, the question wasn't about where local people
can stay affordably at hotels. The question was about your members having job
security. And so we've consistently had labor unions come to this Council telling us,
you know, not to have any kind of control over this industry because of the jobs of the
labor union. And so what I'm saying is where is that balance? This, this industry cannot
have endless growth. We have finite resources and finite land.
CHAIR LEE: Okay Member, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, I think the, the testifier answered
your question. Apparently, you don't agree with him, and that's fine. You know, our
job is not to agree with everybody who comes to testify. All we want is for clarification.
1 think he answered the question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: He talked about lodging. He talked about local
people staying at the-
CHAIR LEE: But, you know, if, if he doesn't answer a question to your satisfaction then at
least he tried. This is a, this applies to all testifiers. If there is a question posed to that
person and they give an answer, and you're not satisfied with that answer, that's the
end of that conversation because we're not here to debate the issue, you know.
Whether you agree with somebody's testimony or not is, is really not the issue.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well I was giving him an opportunity to provide
insights to his expertise that I, I don't have. And so I was hoping that he would be able
to enlighten us with a little-
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but he thought he had, he thought he answered the question cause you
kept going on and asking more, you know, clarifying, you know, expanding your
question.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 33
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ... I wasn't expanding it; it was the same question.
He, he, I asked apples and he answered oranges. And so I was, I was trying to lead
him towards-
CHAIR LEE: You did expand the question when you said other unions ask, you ask other
unions what does that have to do with this testifier, other unions. That and other points
expanded the question beyond his testimony is what I'm saying. So can we please
move on? The testifier believes he answered the question, whether you accept that
answer or not. He thinks he answered the question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I don't, I don't think so, so that's why I was trying to
help”
CHAIR LEE: Cause you don't agree with him. You don't agree with what he's saying and
that's fine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But he didn't answer my-
CHAIR LEE: -our job is not to agree with all the testifiers, our job is to simply get clarification
on some points that they make. Not, you know, a debate, a full on debate about the,
the entire moratorium. We need to focus--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -and its purpose. If they don't want to answer my
question, they can just say, you know, they can politely decline to answer my question,
and that's fine. But if I'm going to ask a question and it's obvious thatthe testifier didn't
understand my question, them I'm going to try to help the testifier understand what it is
I'm asking.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that's true, but you did expand the question. And it's beyond, you know
what the clarification point that we are supposed to focus on. Just clarification, like if
he said, I, I've been working for this organization so many years and this, this is how it
was before, and this is how it is now. And then you ask what do you mean about you
know how it was before and how it is now? That's  aclarifying question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes, and my question was-
CHAIR LEE: —you know, it's pretty obvious you disagree, it's pretty obvious that you disagree
with him, and I'm saying we need to move on. We have another 50 or 60 other people
to hear testimony on and in all fairness to-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 34
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Chair, point of personal privilege, Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Mr. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA:
short break, midmorning break?
It's about 10:30ish, would it be okay if we could just all take a
CHAIR LEE: That's a good idea, but I, we, we need to, we need to conclude this issue
because we have the testifier still on the line and we need to finish that. So Member,
I mean, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Can you, can you end your questioning because apparently the testifier thinks
he answered the question. You don't think he answered the question, but that's, that's
how it is. We're not going to keep going, going, going until you've had an answer that
satisfies you, right? Isn't that correct?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's not about the satisfaction of the question, it's
about him not understanding what the question was that I asked. But I, and, and I can
stop, but the clarifying question was about the sustainability of their job security. And
I know there's going to be a lot of testifiers after him that are going to say the exact
same things that he just said in his testimony and so the reason I was asking him is so
that I can prep the other testifiers that will be repeating exactly what he says.
CHAIR LEE: Well that's not your job. It's not your job to prep the other testifiers.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well the other test-
CHAIR LEE: -going to hear the same exact same testimony on the other side of the issue,
we're not going to tell people you know what we already heard that already, so you
know you don't have to testify on it. ... no matter what side of the issue people have
a right-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well it's not, it's not-
CHAIR LEE: . . . they have a right to say whatever they want to say, right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yes but I would like to hear. . . then that would
be better so that we can collaborate and work together.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 35
CHAIR LEE: Okay, again, we're taking up a lot of time on one testifier. Testifier gave you an
answer, you didn't feel it was an adequate answer. That's fine.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; No he didn't answer the question, that, that, it's not
that it wasn't a good answer, it was that he totally missed the point of the question. So,
but I can drop it and I can move forward.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought he said he couldn't answer that.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin, what did you just say?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought he said he couldn't answer it and that is an answer
when he said 1 can't answer that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, and that's what I'm saying that he said he replied something that she did
not accept that, that, but then we, we're spending too much time on this one way or the
other. And I, I don't encourage Members to discourage testifiers, no matter what side
of the issue they're on. Let them speak, let them speak. Alright so we have, why don't
we take a recess and return at 10:55. Is that okay? Any objections. Members?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, alright, thank you. Meeting is in recess untill 0:55.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 10:39 A.M., AND WAS
RECONVENED AT 10:57 A.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the meeting of January 7, Council meeting please reconvene? Before we
begin our test, resume testimony, can we check with the Members, is everybody okay
connection wise? Everybody, alright. Okay, alright, okay. Madam Clerk please call
the next testifier
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jonathan Likeke Scheuer. To be followed by Mike
Moran.
CHAIR LEE: Good morning.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 36
MR. JONATHAN LIKEKE SCHEUER (testifying on Resolution No. 22-4):
Good morning, aloha. Chair Lee. Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins and Members of the
Council. My name is Jonathan Likeke Scheuer. I'm here today on behalf of William
Aila and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, testifying on Resolution 22-4,
regarding the County trying to obtain the East Maui Irrigation license or lease. So we've
submitted written testimony to you. I appreciate the long day that you have ahead of
you, and will try and summarize the testimony quickly.
DHHL and its beneficiaries, when the State leases water, has three distinct major
interests in the water. The first is that it's a requirement of State law that prior to the
State leasing any water, a reservation of an adequate amount for future uses for
DHHL's needs be set aside prior to the issuance of the lease. The second distinct
interest due to provisions in the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, the State
Constitution and Statute is that 30 percent of all the revenue from any lease be provided
to the Department into the Native Hawaiian Rehabilitation Fund. And finally, of course,
our beneficiaries also may exercise traditional and customary practices related to any
of the waters that are diverted.
In the case of the East Maui system, we have three aina that are affected by that
system. We have lands at Keanae and Wailuanui, which historically were deprived of
water by that system, but thanks to the Water Commission's action, now have full flow
and water flowing to those lands. We have lands at Keokea and Waiohuli, over
6,000 acres which are in need of water, and we have lands in Pulehunui in Central
Maui.
Working with the Water Commission, the Department of Land and Natural Resources,
and Mahi Pono, EMI, Alexander and Baldwin, and our beneficiaries, we developed a
request for approximately 11-million-gallon day reservation from these systems to our
lands at Keokea, Waiohuli, and Pulehunui, and we've submitted that for approval to the
Water Commission. So we are waiting for action from the Water Commission on that.
And we recognize and are pleased that the resolution acknowledges the need to
provide water to DHHL. We're supportive of the intent of the resolution and would note
that A&B and EMI and Mahi Pono have not indicated to us any displeasure or, or
opposition to our resolution, but we do recognize that the very existence of Maui County
and the very existence of the State of Hawaii is dependent on a Compact with the
United States, to faithfully uphold the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act and implement
it. And that obligation is very clear to any State agency and subdivision of the State.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 37
So we recognize the benefits to our beneficiaries that would accrue if the County were
to take over this lease. I'd be more than happy to answer any questions. Thank you
very much for listening to our testimony and reading our written. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Verification questions.
Member Johnson, then Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you, Chair. Good morning, Mr. Likeke Scheuer, it's
good to see you and 1 appreciate all of your knowledge on this, on this issue. Just a
clarification, clarifying question for you, you said it was in the Water Commission at, at
this time. Can you tell us how long is it going to take for them to give you a response
back?
MR. SCHEUER: We hope to have the Water Commission take action on our reservation
request sometime in the first half of 2022. Working with the Commission staff, we're
also trying to work with our beneficiaries to have beneficiary training and education with
them prior to that coming before the Water Commission.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Wonderful, okay, well keep us posted. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Chair, I have no further questions.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, sorry about that. Sorry about that. Aloha Jonathan, good to
see you here.
MR. SCHEUER: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... really great work for the State. So for Resolution 22-4, is your
testimony indicative of wanting that to go to Committee to, for further discussion rather
than trying to pass it on the floor.
MR. SCHEUER: So I will, I, I, I focused the development of DHHL's testimony simply on how
it affects DHHL. I would note that I think parts of the resolution are very strong, other
parts of the resolution might benefit from meaningful discussion at the Committee level
in terms of what the proper mechanism is and which bodies, not just the Mayor's Office,
but also the Council might have a role to play in the pursuit of a lease from EMI, for the
EMI system.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, and you would be willing to be part of that discussion we
have.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 38
MR. SCHEUER: The Department certainly would be, and I do what William tells me to do.
So happy to do ... he tells me to.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Alright, okay, thank you so much. Thanks for being here.
MR. SCHEUER: Mahalo nui, Councilmember.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? Mem, Pro Tern Kama
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Aloha Likeke, mahalo for being here this
morning. You know it's, so my question is, how soon, if, if, if you're able to get the
approval from the, the Commission, how soon would it be until the Department itself is
going to be able to get ag water into the ag lots in Keokea.
MR. SCHEUER; Thank you very much, Councilmember. That's an excellent question. The
Department does actually have a $2 million previously allocated CIP planning
allocation from the Legislature to plan for that purpose, and so we're trying to work on
simultaneously, waiting to hear from the Commission, ideally successfully, as well as
implementing that contract to do that. That would give us a greater sense of how long
it would take to actually implement the physical infrastructure needed to move that
water.
I will note that the, ail the language throughout the Hawaii Revised Statutes around
reservations don't require that we have immediate plans or ability to move that water
onto our lands. The intent of the Legislature was recognizing that DHHL has such
limited funds and private sector developers often can swoop in and essentially get
water before we're able to get it to our beneficiaries. And so there's not a time limit on
how long it might take. But obviously we're very interested in doing so.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Absolutely, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
MR. SCHEUER: Mahalo nui.
CHAIR LEE: Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mike Moran. To be followed by David Litman.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 39
MR. MIKE MORAN. KIHEI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (testifying on County
Communication No. 22-9):
Good morning, Chair Lee and commissioners. Mike Moran for the Kihei Community
Association on 22-9. We supported you when you passed this bill, and we ask you to
stand strong and oyerride the Mayor's veto. We can only offer that we have followed
this process as an all volunteer group from the original bill to the second bill and all
through Committee and through the Council meetings and we feel if we could follow it
and be aware of what's going on, certainly we kind of expect any entities that have paid
employees to do so would also be aware of it.
So we don't expect, and I don't know, I don't tend to think that you expect either to hear
anything new today. You're hearing, you're going to hear the same people saying the
same things, and so I don't see that you have any reason to change. Yes, from our
point of view maybe the, the three who didn't support it, they might change, but we do
feel that we are not, we haven't heard it so far, we don't expect to hear anything new
today. So we see no reason for you to change what you did before, and we are in full
support of the Council standing strong and overriding the veto. Mahalo for the
opportunity and hope you can wrap up soon and have a happy weekend. Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Wishful thinking. We have 50, 51 more testifiers. Thank you, Mike. Any
questions for Mr. Moran? If not, thank you very much.
MR. MORAN: A hui hou.
CHAIR LEE: May we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is David Litman. To be followed by Brian Viloria.
MR. DAVID LITMAN (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution No 22-6):
Thank you. yes, David Litman. I'm not a paid lobbyist, I'm a Maui resident of 11 years
working in social services and serving youth and families here on Maui here to testify
also on CC 22-9.
I also believe we need to override the Mayor's veto. Regarding the Mayor's issues of
unintended consequences and rental cars, 1 think that was already handled eloquently.
Regarding the concern about more short-term rentals, it just seems kind of ridiculous
to me, I mean there's already such a temptation due to the huge disparity of income
possible. You can make three times as much you know easily on a short-term rental
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 40
business, a long-term rental, so I don't, I think that's another issue entirely that I think
is being addressed and of course needs to be further addressed separately. But we
need to do whatever we can.
Regarding public input, here I am the public providing input right, so I think it's out there.
As mentioned, you know, we're greatly exceeding the Maui County plan, we need to
do all we can to not kill that goose that lays the golden eggs. I mean, there's better
ways to improve our economy without degrading the environment and the quality of
the experience for residents, visitors, and if we don't reduce the number of tourists,
we'll just destroy the reason they come here in the first place, not to mention . . . our
home. So I just really encourage you to override the Mayor's veto.
Separately, I'd also like to voice some support regarding Resolution 22-6 to protect the
natural environment, improve physical infrastructure, promote sustainable and use in
growth management. So thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much. May we have
the next testifier please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Brian Viloria. To be followed by Jeff Ornellas.
MR. BRIAN VILORIA (testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-9):
Good morning, Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. VILORIA: Thank you. My name is Brian Viloria and I'm with BMK Construction and
Hawaii Millworks, we do a vast array of specialty trades, stone and tile, masonry,
carpentry work. I was born and raised on Maui and  alarge portion of our business is
within Maui County and focuses on the high-end commercial construction. I would like
to testify in opposition to Bill 148 and to request that this Council uphold the veto of the
bill that was put forth by the Mayor.
Just real quickly, I believe, you know, the moratorium on new transient
accommodations will impact, you know, the continued economic growth within Maui
County. I, i think it's, it's going to not only affect our business and employees sort of in
a short term, you know, that are relying on planned construction for income.
And, and, and to note that, you know, my role in, in several of these things is, is working
on preconstruction and that a lot of these projects and investments are, are, are many,
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 41
many years in, in the making. And, you know, the moratorium may have some lasting
impacts on that. You know, and hopefully not, not. it will not, if it, if it, if it is overturned,
will not signal to the investors that, that Maui's not a good place to invest, right?
You know, and I think that, that may impact you know, if, if we start to lose some of that
investment in tourism, we may lose ability for some of these folks to create independent
futures around economic growth that, that sort of targets tourism. At least, that's my
opinion. And I also want to say that investment in, in, in new units, say for hotel rooms
also, also brings investment in renovating the existing inventory, right? So I think it's
very important for us to consider that, that that is a very necessary thing to make this
all work for, for investors looking to come into the, come into the industry here and to
make sure that we're continuing to improve the inventory that we have to bring the
quality of visitors to the island that we're looking for.
And, and just, just one, one other note too, I, I think you know, in my opinion, economic
growth is, is necessary to continue to improve the standard of life, you know, and the
quality of life of residents. And, and right now that's, that is centered around tourism.
You know, again, in my opinion, and that doesn't need to be long term future.
CHAIR LEE: We need you to conclude, we need you,  Ithought you were concluding.
MR. VILORIA: Oh, sorry, okay, I, I could say I .  ..
CHAIR LEE; Long conclusion.
MR. VILORIA: Too long.
CHAIR LEE; We have some questions, we have some questions. I know, yeah, I don't want
to discourage you. Anyway, we have a couple questions for you.
Member Paltin, first.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Viloria, for your testimony,
it was a very good first testimony. I just wanted to ask two questions. The first one is
you understand that renovations are allowed, right.
MR. VILORIA: Correct. Yes, no, ! understand that. ..
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, the second question was, just is the supply chain issues
affecting the business right now?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 42
MR. VILORIA: You know they are, they are, but but what we're finding is that the money, the
money that's coming into this type of, this type of investment is actually working through
that, and able to work through that with us to allow us to continue forward. You know
what I mean? I, I think, I think generally, what, what I've personally seen is that moving
forward the investors that are coming into the industry, you know, specifically the resort
industry here are doing an exceptional job of not letting the pandemic issues affect
these projects that are moving forward and really, really spending the money to try to,
try to keep the projects moving once they start, you know. And, and, and that's what
I've seen personally in the you know, variety of projects that we've taken part in.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you. Thank you so much and good job on your
first testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, again please try and tie your questions to the testimony. And
I understand Member Paltin that question on the supplies, of supply availability and so
forth and cost is related to his testimony about continuing construction, right, right or
not. Just trying to make sure that weTe connecting the dots.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, yeah, I just was wondering if that was going to be a factor
if, you know, if whatever.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, that's, that's fine. Just a yes answer that was fine.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I just have a quick question for you
Mr. Viloria, thank you for coming today. So you mentioned your business is focused
on high end type of construction. You know, I might if, if you know when the, when the
veto, whatever happens I just want to say can you pivot to instead of building high end
hotel rooms, what if you build, help build hospital rooms or school rooms, or does it
have to be high end? I mean that's, I mean does it have to be a hotel? I mean can,
can your company pivot, do other construction needs that we need that is so desperate,
affordable housing. You know the list goes on? Does it have to be the hotels?
MR. VILORIA: No, of course, I don't feel it has to be. You know any, any sustainable business
should, should be able to be able to pivot. But there needs to be money and, and I
think, 1 think planning that goes into being allowed to, to move in those directions. And
that's long term, right? You know, you know that's the thing, right?
You know, ! used to tell everyone that I, I, you know, my personal opinion is thinking
about where the construction industry going is, is years out right, is years out because
the stuff we're talking about next year or the year after that and the year after that, you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 43
know, even 2025 it's, it's already in the books, right? That's all stuff that, that we've
been working on design for, for two years or three years, and are maybe getting
dropped in the permitting now that we're expecting to build, say in the next 12 months.
So yeah, I mean you know if this happens and. and, and again, right, you know
everyone needs to figure out a way to survive. I'm not going anywhere. I spent
10 years away and I came back and I want to stay. So we gotta figure out a way to, to
do this right?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Well amen to that. I appreciate that answer. Amen to that.
I, that's really what I was, I was fishing for. So thank you, Chair, I have no further
questions.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. So thank you, Mr. Viloria for being here. So
in your response to Member Johnson, did 1 hear you say that you folks have got stuff
and have been having stuff in the works in terms of how you plan, you design, and you
do all of your construction and contracting work and all of that stuff almost like five
years in the making and so to be able to put a short stop into this would create some
kind of impact negatively on you.
MR. VILORIA: Yes, we believe that. So, so the, you know the approval process is at the very
tail end of, of the of the investment, right? So, so folks buy the properties, they, they,
they go through Planning Commissions, right? They go through design iterations,
sometimes that takes six to twelve months just to get a design pushed forward to be
able to get in for permitting. And then that permit, permit process is, is maybe a year
long, right?
So, so to have someone show up with money to start that process to, to, to say
purchase a, purchase a resort from an existing owner, owner or, or initiate a
reinvestment in a property, that, that's sort of years in the making. And, and, and while
it's true that you know work maybe for the next year is happening, I think the signaling
to me is a lot more important to understand that, that it's signaling that there's, there's
maybe not a future for future permitting, that this is the way it's going, you know.
People stop, stop putting money in and start putting the time in because, because, you
know, it's, design, design and permitting maybe, maybe ten to fifteen percent of the
value of, of the development, right? So if you're talking about $100 million of
construction revenue, these guys are, these guys are forking over 10 million bucks.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. I think you answered the question adequately.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 44
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
appreciated your testimony and the insights that you shared and your responses to the
Councilmembers. I'd love to work with you if you would contact my office. Mahalo.
Mahalo, Chair.
Aloha, Mr. Viloria. 1 really
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any more questions or comments? If not, thank you very much, Brian.
MR. VILORIA: Thank you, everyone. Sorry about that.
CHAIR LEE: And, no. Madam Clerk next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jeff Ornellas. To be followed by Gabriel Hoeffken.
MR. JEFF ORNELLAS (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Jeff Ornellas and I'm a business agent with the
International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, Local 1. One of the most
important crafts that our members do is tile work. On Maui, hotels are pretty much the
only source, orthe majority source of the tile work as hotels have numerous bathrooms,
kitchens, pools and more. Our members also do work with marble and granite and
hotel work usually involves high quality and high finish countertops and more. If the
moratorium goes into effect this will dry up work for our members. They will have to go
to Oahu or the mainland to provide for their families. There will almost be no
alternatives.
And we are hearing from the other trades that it would affect them also. Our members
couldn't even go to another trade if they wanted to because these jobs will also be dried
up. I understand the idea that we need to manage tourism, but we should not do this
in a way which will sacrifice so many jobs from good local workers who are simply
trying to provide for their families. Please do not override the Mayor's veto of Bill 148.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you Mr. Ornellas. May
we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Gabriel Hoeffken. To be followed by Bill Meheula.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 45
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Hoeffken.
Madam Clerk.
MR. GABRIEL HOEFFKEN (testifying on Resolution No. 22-3):
Hello, hello.
CHAIR LEE: Are you Mr. Hoeffken?
MR. HOEFFKEN: Yes I am, sorry my headset wasn't working I had to pull down the
microphone.
CHAIR LEE: Please proceed.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Yeah, good morning, Councilmembers. Thank you for hearing my
testimony. My name is Gabriel Hoeffken, I am officially the developer of the Hana
Affordable project, but I'm not really a developer, that's got kind of a bad connotation.
I'm a guy who's trying to do something that's good. It's a, my father's, kind of one of
his goals was to try and help the community in Hana by providing some affordable
housing. So I've been helping him to achieve that, that goal and that dream.
We've been working on this project, gosh, we actually started roughly in 2011, actively
in 2014. We have been working with Habitat for Humanity and Sherri Dodson since
2014 on this project. We got our 201H in, gosh was at 20, time flies I apologize, 1 think
it was 20, well it's like five years, 2017, October of 2017. Unfortunately, we had
five years to get a permit, we did not receive a permit in that time, even though we have
actively been trying to get construction plans approved or drainage plans approved,
and go through all the requirements for these, these processes to get permitting. And
yeah, our 201H has expired.
We are graciously asking that you guys vote to extend the 201H and allow us to
continue. Currently, my understanding is that our construction plans have been
approved. Our drainage plan is in review right now with Public Works. And if we can
get that we'll, I think that is the trigger for us being able to get grading and grubbing
permits and actually potentially get started on the project.
Anyway, if we don't get the extension, 1 don't feel we have the resources to go through
the whole process of the 201H again, so most likely that would be the end of this
project. I am hopeful that the Council will agree and allow our continued efforts towards
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 46
creating a 100 percent affordable housing in Hana, Maui. It is desperately needed by
the community and thank you very much for. for allowing me to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, and that was Resolution 22-3,  Ibelieve.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Correct.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions. Yes, Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Thank you. Chair. I'll be quick. Thank you, Mr. Hoeffken,
for being a shining star in affordable housing. And we need it in Hana so bad, so
mahalo, that's all.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Thank you, Councilmember Johnson.
CHAIR LEE: Any more comments or questions?
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair and mahalo, Mr. Hoeffken for your testimony.
And as he mentioned, we've been working with the developer. He has had through
the, through these past years had some challenges and I just wanted to see if
Mr. Hoeffken could explain maybe, the drainage issues that, that you had just spoke
about. Some of those challenges.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Well I'm not an engineer. I do work in construction, I, me and my dad own
Tom's Backhoe and Excavation, so we are a civil sitework contractor on Maui. It's just
a long process, and it's actually gotten, my understanding is it's gotten a lot more
evolved, involved in the last few years.
So prior to us getting our 201H, the engineer said that the drainage, the process for
getting your drainage plan approved was pretty straightforward and, and simple, and
fast. And then, in trying to comply with both, you know, FEMA and all these other State
and Federal regulations, the, the process got a lot more stringent and time-consuming.
And that means it takes more, more time on both the, the engineer, the design
professional side to come up with this very detailed plan, but also more time on the
County side to review these detailed plans.
And another thing that happened, I think it was after 2018, so we were between 2017
and 2018 they actually started sending a lot of these, these plans to a consultant on
Oahu who specifically dealt with these types of things, which of course made the
process a lot more stringent. So it's just a slower process, it's a little bit more of a
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 47
difficult process. Another thing that we're dealing with is new requirements for FEMA
acceptance.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you, Mr. Hoeffken. I think you answered the question.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Alright, yeah, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. And then if Mr. Hoeffken can stay on as a
resource just in case Members had additional questions, if that's--
MR. HOEFFKEN; Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -okay.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you very much
Mr. Hoeffken.
MR. HOEFFKEN: Thank you, Council, I appreciate the time.
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Bill Meheula. To be followed by Lucienne de Naie.
MR. BILL MEHEULA, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Bill Meheula, I'm an attorney testifying on behalf
of the Hawaii Hotel Association. My written testimony is attached to Jerry Gibson's
written testimony. I'm testifying on CC 22-9 in opposition to Bill 148 and in favor of the
Mayor's veto.
My only point is that Bill 148 violates due process guaranteed by the 14th Amendment,
as not rationally related to a legitimate State interest because the, the bill is legally
defective in three ways and only one defect is necessary to invalidate any law. The
three ways are the need for this moratorium is not factually justified. The need has not
been adequately investigated. And less extreme solutions have not been investigated.
The support for those legal defects are: 1) reliance on the Maui Island Plan, 4.2.3 as
a mandate for a visitor population should, that should not exceed 33 percent is not
justified. The reason why it's not justified is that section of the Maui Island Plan is
aspirational. It's ... it says roughly 33 percent and it's not a rule, you can't enforce it.
The other reason is that the Maui Island Plan was passed in 2012, and since then
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 48
short-term rentals have exploded and hotel room production has gone down, it's
actually declined.
The second reason is that the bill itself actually admits that the bill is not, that the bill is
not necessary and less extreme solutions have not been adequately investigated
because right there in Section 19.98.10 it says that the moratorium may terminate upon
the TIGs recommendations on limits per transient accommodation type. That’s an
admission right in the bill that the adequate investigation has not been done.
The Council should at least wait until that TIG report comes out in three months before
moving on this type of broad moratorium. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you Mr. Meheula.
MR. MEHEULA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Can we have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Lucienne de Naie. To be followed by Sherri Dodson.
[testifying on County Communication No. 22-9, Resolution
Nos. 22-3, 22-4, 22-5. & 22-6, and Bill Nos. 153 (2021). 154 (2021L 8 (2022). 9 (2022)
& 10 (2022)1:
MS. LUCIENNE DE NAIE
Aloha, . . . This is Lucienne de Naie, and thank you for this opportunity to testify. I'm
testifying on behalf of the Sierra Club, Maui Group on a variety of items.
Urn first of Bill 148 or the override of the moratorium bill that was passed by the Council.
Sierra Club is in strong support of keeping the original vote, overriding the Mayor's
veto, and getting some time where we're not creating more problems to try to fix the
problem we have. We do have a lot of visitor units. I don't think our hotel industry is
going to shut down. I think anyone who thinks that is really on the wrong track. Also,
whether this will just push people to go into the residential neighborhoods. They've
been doing that for years without, even when new hotels or lodging type of things have
been built. This is just a choice of where people want to stay . They don't all want to
stay in one place. We just need to regulate that in a separate way, and I think that that
mechanism is in place. So we urge you to continue your support of this time out.
I will move on to the resolutions, I believe we signed up to, uh, address Resolution 3,
4, 5, and 6, actually 4, 5, and 6, although 3 is very worthy as well. Definitely support
having more affordable housing in Hana.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 49
Resolution 4, the County Council should act now, they should try to pass this today
because decisions are being made at the State Water Commission. We heard in
CoLincilmember Sinenci's Committee that if the County has any interest in being a
meaningful player in the decisions that are being made for 30 years and can't be
changed for 30 years about East Maui water, the largest source of water, publicly
available water on Maui that comes from public lands for the most part that they should
definitely let the State know.
So hopefully the Mayor will take some heart and reach out and look for a solution that
can make sure that our decisions in the future about this largest source of water
available to Maui, that's counted on by many for agriculture, for subsistence, for
Hawaiian Homes, etc., where the decisions should be made here in Wailuku.
Otherwise, we leave only the choice of awarding the lease to a foreign corporation that
makes decisions in Quebec, and they may be lovely people right now, but 3C years is
a long time. So I urge you to pass this on the floor.
As for 22-5, the Red Hill resolution. Sierra Club has strongly supported there being a
full disclosure, full testing, and full remediation of the leaking fuel tanks at Red Hill. I’ve
been on the Sierra Club board for the last 15 years and for seven of those years we've
been talking to anyone who would listen about that facility. Not only does it threaten
the safety of the military families who are served by the immediate water system, but
the leaking tanks could impinge on the safety of the entire Ewa Aquifer, the largest
aquifer on the island of Oahu. And so contaminate over time the drinking water supply
of the majority of people on Oahu. Please let's stand in solidarity with the, the
numerous organizations and entities, including the Honolulu Board of Water Supply
and Director Ernie Lau, who want to see these tanks closed down, cleaned up, and if
there's new tanks installed, ones that have appropriate linings.
Moving onto item 22-6. This is a, a great first step. I sure hope that more oversight of
wireless towers will be reviewed by the Planning and Sustainable Land Use
Committee. As a Haiku resident, we had all kinds of pilikia here years ago when a
cellphone tower was erected right in the middle of a residential neighborhood, and
there was just no regulation at all as to what could or couldn't be done. People weren't
properly notified. It, it really is, it's kind of  anew future and we need to understand it
and what our options are to provide for it to be done right. So please refer this matter.
If it goes to the Planning Commission's now, it's just probably going to take longer. Let
the Committee have some draft to send to the Planning Commission and then the intent
will be clearer because it's a big issue.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 50
Moving on to Bill, I believe it's 8 and 9 having to do with the purchase of the Hana lands
in the area of. . . Formally we stand in support of the amendments that are needed
and that that be moved forward. That ends my testimony on behalf of Sierra Club Maui.
I would just like to say as a citizen and resident of the Haiku area, mahalo the Council
for making it possible for our restrooms to be completed at the Haiku Community
Center. They're a valued part of our community infrastructure, not just for the sports
teams that use the area, but the many folks driving out to Hana, there's very few
comfort stations between town and Hana. And this could be one of them, again, it was
for years and it needs to be again. So I believe that's Bill 8 and 9 or maybe that was
153, 152. At any rate, I stand strongly in support of resolving the funding and letting
that project move forward. So mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, thank you. Chair. Just real quick Lucienne, thanks for
being here again. On the, on the reso ... the number, look at these numbers over and
over again, but the reso for the wireless bill. There, there is a bill attached to that, so
you were, you were asking about making a, making  adraft before we send it to
Planning Commission. There is a draft, but the intent is still to send it to Committee.
MS. DE NAIE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So that we can have a full discussion on it.
MS. DE NAIE: Well, thank you. No I, I meant a draft that had been subject to some
discussion, so it's not--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. okay . . .
MS. DE NAIE: -wasting Planning Commission's time basically. You're, you're sending them
kind of a bill with the intent after, after discussion by the Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, just wanted to clarify that. Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
MS. DE NAIE; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, other questions? If not, thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier please.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 51
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Sherri Dodson. To be followed by Shay Chan Hodges.
(testifying on ResolutionMS. SHERRI DODSON. HABITAT FOR HUMANITY MAUI
No. 22-3):
Good morning, Sherri Dodson. Habitat for Humanity Maui. I am testifying, testifying in
support of Resolution 22-3, and I'd like to thank Councilman Sinenci for getting this on
the agenda so quickly. As you can imagine, after the years of, many years of both
Gabe and I working on this project, it was a little scary to find out that the whole thing
could just fizzle out and die. We have received so many people from Hana calling us
and, and asking about the project and continue to do so to date.
I appreciate the Council's thoughtfulness when they passed the 201H about getting the
project done, and so putting limitations on when, you know, how long a 201H can stay
valid. But the reality is many times it does take  along time to get through plan and,
and permitting, and getting to the stage where even we are right now. And, in this
particular project, it's not for lack of trying and there has been a lot of activity so ail the,
while the intent of the Council is to not let projects linger, I can assure you this one is
not.
I will be glad to stay on as a reference if you'd like, when you do discuss the resolution
itself. And that concludes my testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, any questions.
Yes, Member Sinenci, then Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah, just Chair, if, if Sherri could stay on as a resource.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections. Members.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I'm not sure when that will be, Sherri, it'll be sometime after lunch.
Hopefully not at 5:00, but you know, after lunch. Okay.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, so the reso, the resolution says, or what the
intent is to extend the date to December 29, 2023. And as you are the person who
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 52
probably has been keeping close tracks of this, is that enough time for you. Twenty
December 29, 2023.
MS. DODSON: I certainly hope so. As Gabe indicated in his testimony earlier, the drainage
report on the engineers' side is complete and is back at the County for approval.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, thank you for answering the question. We'll take this up later when it
comes up. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with questions on the testimony. If not, thank you, Sherri. We'll
see you later and may we have the next testifier please.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Shay Chan Hodges. To be followed by Jordan Hocker.
MS. SHAY CHAN HODGES, (testifying on Resolution Nos. 22-4, 22-5 and 22-9):
Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Good morning, my name is Shay Chan Hodges, and I am testifying in
support of Resos 22-4 and 5, both of which relate to our ability to protect our public
trust resource, water. Last month I testified before the Board of Water Supply about
Pretium Partners, a New York based investment firm whose business plan and
investors are revealed in the Pandora Papers with  atrove of offshore financial records
obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.
The Washington Post had reported on how Pretium Partners . . . more than a billion
dollars for the Progress Residential real estate venture which reaped big profits from
stressed American renters amid the housing affordability crisis by buying up housing
and aggressively evicting tenants. Progress makes money by reducing costs on
maintenance and overhead and raising rents and charging fees. Congress is
investigating whether Progress violated a national moratorium on evictions during the
pandemic.
When I read the article, I recognized the names Pretium Partners and Progress
Residential from an article in the Toronto Star from last February. The title was why a
Canadian Crown corporation is banking on the downfall of the American Dream.
According to the article, as of last January, Pretium is in business to the tune of almost
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 53
$900 million with a Canadian Crown corporation called the Public Sector Pension
Investment Board or PSP. As everyone knows by now, the Canadian Pension Fund
PSP is the sole owner of Mahi Pono, which is seeking full control of the EMI water
system and a 30-year lease to those public trust waters.
According to the Toronto Star, PSP's mission is to maximize returns without taking
undo risks, and they’re good at it. Canadian public pension funds generally are
extremely effective and are the envy of the world. The Pretium investment is just one
example of PSP values. PSP is also implicated in deaths, negligence, and tax
avoidance at the Revera elder care homes where they are the sole investor and
operator, and which operate in Canada where their own beneficiaries are cared for.
Clearly PSP's number one priority is making a sizable return on the investment.
Last month the Board of Water Supply voted unanimously to encourage the County
Council and the Mayor to pursue the four water leases in East Maui through an
intergovernmental agreement with DLNR, as recommended in the 2019 temporary
investigative report, which was also approved unanimously. In 2019, then State
Senator, now Congressman Kai Kahele wrote a letter to the Mayor recommending that
the County apply for the leases. I support these recommendations and encourage the
County Council to reach out to Ian Hirokawa, DLNR immediately because I strongly
believe that it is our kuliana to ensure that our land and water are protected, as we've
watched the contamination of the aquifer and suffering of Oahu families because of
Red Hill, it's obvious how necessary it is to proactively protect our water supply.
We elect our Mayor and Councilmembers for two and four year terms and as a result
they are accountable to us. We have no such recourse with a foreign entity. If the
Canadian Pension Fund controls our water for three decades, we abdicate our ability
to protect the public trust for ourselves, for our children, and their children. And after
that it may be too late. So please pass these resolutions today. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Aloha, Shay, thanks for your testimony. I, can
you clarify what you meant about contacting and you said Hirokawa with DLNR.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Yes, so at Councilmember Shane Sinenci's Committee meeting, I think
it was in October Ian Hirokawa from DLNR made it very clear that if he hears from the
County Council or the Mayor that they will, they have first, basically, they're the most
important interest to them before the appraisal process starts, so, or the auction
process starts. So if that happens, they will stop what they're doing because the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 54
County doesn't have to go through the auction process, and they will start working with
the County to figure out how they can have this intergovernmental agreement.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, I think it might have been a meeting I missed because I
was in Scotland. But was, so, so the, the, the statement was that if they are contacted
by either the Mayor or the County Council.
MS. CHAN HODGES; Yeah, they just need to know that there's an interest from the County
in this process. Because you know, if they don't hear that, they believe that, you know
they need to go through this whole auction thing and figure out the whole appraisal
process. And that's a huge process. So it's very important for them to find out right
away that the County, that the County is interested whichever body it is that reaches
out to them.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So then so, just to . . . clarification. So is your feeling that this
resolution will serve as that notice and serve as that notice.
MS. CHAN HODGES: I think the resolution is pretty good. I do have a concern about it being
focused on the Mayor, only because we had a presentation, or not we, I was not, 1 was
just watching it, I'm not a board member anymore, but at the Board of Water Supply
there was a presentation . . . from Sandy Baz and my concern was he didn't seem to
fully understand the process. I don't know if he saw that meeting either. He wasn't
reaching out to Ian Hirokawa, he did say that he wanted to reach out, but he reached
out to the wrong people. So I'm just, so I think, you know, especially because you know
Councilmember Sinenci did--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, but the question is, do you feel that the resolution can serve
as that, the letter of interest, or is that the, is that ... the interest that she needs to
hear? You know that she needs to hear from the Council.
MS CHAN HODGES: She, I, I don't, I don't. Yeah, I'm not an expert in reso so I can't say,
but I think maybe it could, it could, you know could be maybe clarified a little bit so that
it's very clear.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, maybe we can add that into the reso when we get to . . .
MS. CHAN HODGES; Yeah, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, okay, I think I understand. Alright, thank you, thank you
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 55
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to clarify, you know, if certified
copies are sent to the Governor David Ige, as well as State of Hawaii, BLNR
Chairperson Suzanne Case, do you think that Mr. Kurokawa [sic] needs to be
individually named as well or sending it to Suzanne Case is sufficient. Or should we
add Mr. Kurokawa's [sic] name to the list of people who receive certified copies?
MS. CHAN HODGES: Yeah, I would, I would add him. Again, I'm not an expert on that, but
it seems to me that the more clear you are the better. And he is definitely the person
who is handling that, he’s the staff person, so that would make sense to me.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, and so you're not familiar with his specific title, is it just
staff person.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Actually, I can look it up. He does have a very specific title, 1 know
it's in Councilmember Sinenci's agenda from October. So I know he knows.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, great, thank you, you answered my question.
MS. CHAN HODGES: Okay, thanks.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier who make, we'll take a couple more before our lunch break.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Jordan Hocker. To be followed by Brett Gobar.
MS. JORDAN HOCKER. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No.22-5):
Hi there Councilmembers. Aloha, Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
Happy New Year to you all and thanks for having me here today. Also I did write this
at the very beginning, but! don't know if you're coordinated but you're all looking very
sharp. So just compliment.
Okay so I'm testifying today on CC 22-9 and Resolution 22-5. I am testifying on my
own behalf and as a private citizen. I'll just start off to say, wow, it feels like so much
time has passed regarding Bill 148, we've been at this a while and we're in the final
hours, so to speak. I've been supporting this effort since its first incarnation and despite
the Mayor's veto I still believe that the moratorium is a smart move on many fronts. It's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 56
no secret that our tourism is our cash cow, and it's been reflected in policy and in so
many aspects of government to the point that I feel like the veto really rests more on
that principle than the reality and the impacts of the industry on our islands.
I've mentioned this before, I'm a sustainability science management major and from
that perspective I really see the industry eating up the very resources that it relies on.
We do not have endless land and we do not have endless water. That reason alone
is a very reasonable need for a pause. It is clear through previous and current lobbyist
testimony that there is no plan to slow or stop growth. I hear this time and time and
again, as we've had these hearings. And that is just going to hurt the public and the
environment.
Personally, you know, just I, I don't necessarily want the industry to grow because it
already dominates so many aspects of our lives. But the point of the moratorium is not
to limit tourists, it’s to mitigate a few of the impacts of tourism. The other point I see
talk, thrown around and was addressed by the Mayor is the residential short-term
rentals as well as illegal vacation rentals. Good news is that if you want to do a
residential short-term rental, we have a Planning Department, and they approve or
deny those permits. And when the hearings happen, neighbors can weigh in on that.
So I'm feeling really good about the Planning Department's ability to keep doing what
they're already doing.
As far as illegal vacation rentals go, I mean the more of them there are and that we can
enforce, the more money it is for County and fines. And the moratorium gives us time
to address it as well.
One of the things I keep hearing that feels very confusing to me is 1 don't understand
why the industry is saying that contractors can't also get jobs building affordable
housing, which is something that we, I think we can agree, we need more than hotels
and visitor accommodations.
Lastly, I will state for the record on this item that the amendments made by this body
to Bill 148,1 do not believe were done in some secret last minute agenda. As a member
of the public, we have been here every step of the way with this body, and I believe
that you have done your due diligence in listening to the public. So hoping that you
folks will hear us now and uphold your original votes and override the veto today. I
have faith in this body to uphold the will of the public, which I will always remind you
has dedicated countless volunteer hours, time away from jobs and families to, to make
our point heard. So that's where I'll conclude on CC 22-9.
I'll move on to Resolution 22-5. Urn, so, Ola I Ka Wai is not a political position. It is
the most unrelenting reality of our times. It is, it is the bottom line. It is everything that
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 57
we need. We cannot do anything without that. So a little bit of history if you're not
familiar. The Navy knew when they installed these fuel tanks in the 1940s that they
had a 40-year lifespan before they would potentially start to leak right? Which meant
that in the 1980s, something should have been done. But nothing was really done,
and in the 1999, I'm sorry I didn't submit this in written testimony, if anyone wants it, I
can email it to you.
It was a report done by the Navy in 1999, and actually found then, okay, when I was
ten years old that there were leaks under several of the tanks. And they sat on it, and
they didn't do anything. And here we are, you know, twenty years later, with, with,
sitting here with that reality. And they knew the tanks were leaking, not just one tank
but like multiple tanks. Okay, so they, they fully surveyed the, the tragedy when I was
a child. And you know, I really believe that maybe they simply thought they had enough
power and influence to do nothing, and that accountability wouldn't come to them.
Militarism is our other cash cow in the State, so it's not particularly surprising. But it's
really devastating when you consider what that looks like.
A Navy official recently purported that you know, water and fuel are kind of the same
importance, it just depends on what you're doing. And I think that statement really
embodied the fact that the Navy cannot be trusted to take into consideration public
health. And that it's not a priority of them, which is also not surprising.
Urn, so to say I, I don't know if this body has seen the videos of toddlers vomiting
uncontrollably, or entire families in the ER, or mothers collapsed due to the fumes
coming through the water pipes. This is the Navy's own people and that's probably the
most concerning part about it. I mean, these families have given their lives to this
whole thing. You know your husband goes in the Navy, you move into the barracks,
your family is a military family. That is in my history and to think that they wouldn't
protect their own people does not give me faith that they're gonna protect an aquifer
that supplies drinking water to a lot of different people.
And I will conclude to say, in case you don't already know this, fuel cannot be removed
from an aquifer. It can't, okay. So once it's there, it's there for as long as it's there.
And the reality is you can't pump an aquifer out and expect it to fill back up, because
we're on an island. So the space that the fresh water doesn't inhabit pulls in more salt
water. There's nothing to be done once that aquifer is contaminated, except bottled
water and, I don't know if you folks have tried to look for a filter, a water filter that takes
fuel out of water, they don't really exist at this point in time.
So 1 would like to thank this for being introduced and I hope we can really find some
solidarity and a voice across pai aina because what hurts some of us, hurts all of us.
So thank you for your time today.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 58
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, we'll take one last testifier.
Mr. Gobar.
COUNTY CLERK: Brett Gobar.
MR. BRETT GOBAR. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Happy New Year. Brett Gobar from Kuau. I hold a BS degree in water quality, funny
enough. I support what the doctor said earlier and what Lucienne said, and Ms. Hocker
had said. Please consider their testimony seriously. Please pass Bili148 . Please do
whatever you can to create more local Maui County control of our water, the EMI water.
Tourism and poorly planned construction is killing Maui. We all see it every day when
we drive down the highway, when we see the beaches eroding. Employment, there's
plenty of work for contractors on Maui. My efforts to remodel my home have been
postponed every time, because contractors are busy, they're booking for six, twelve,
and 24 months from now. There's no lack of work. Construction jobs are temporary
jobs, they're not sustainable. So let's provide a solution. Small family and medium
sized farms, properly nurtured by our leadership, that's you, sustain jobs and a healthy
community.
I am disappointed by this Mayor's blatant disregard for the overwhelming direction by
voters to our elected representatives to at least pause tourist housing construction. To
allow you our leadership ... to implement solutions to reduce overcrowded roadways,
to reduce overcrowded beaches and hiking trails, to reduce ocean and groundwater
pollution from 88,000 . . . sewage water injection wells.
CHAIR LEE: Okay everybody please mute your, your microphones except for the testifier.
MR. GOBAR: Thank you. Chair. Time to reduce stream water flow and to develop a healthy
source of fresh water for existing local people.  Ido not feel this Mayor acts in the best
interests of the kanaka and the average voter. Rather, he's purporting the interests of
big corporations and a few well-connected developers. It's obvious. Please be pono,
please do the right thing. Please endorse 148.
Please take back control of our local water, retore stream water, take the power away
from Mahi Pono so you have more control for a sustainable future on Maui. Let's
change the destructive trends that we've created on Maui in the last three or four or
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 59
five decades. Let's change that in 2022. Mahalo for all the difficult issues that you are
educating yourselves on. I respect you so much. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Gobar. Are there any questions, Members? Appears not, thank
you very much. Members \A/e've reached about the almost 12:00 hour. Any objections
to taking a lunch break at this time? We have 41 more testifiers and return at 1:30.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Could we do like an hour lunchbreak maybe. I gotta pick up
my kids.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think we're getting an hour and a half right. The 1:30?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, request is to do an hour.
CHAIR LEE: She's requesting an hour.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, I probably won’t be back till 1:30, but if you want to start earlier,
fine.
CHAIR LEE: Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I would be okay with an hour, but can
we do like 12:30 to 1:30 Instead of 12 to one? Maybe that would be better.
CHAIR LEE: What time is your meeting Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well I actually just set it up for 12 because I thought when we
when we were talking about going to lunch at 12, so.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I tell you what, if you don't ask too many questions, we can speed it up
all the way to the end. How's that? Okay, so we'll come back at 1:30 and then we'll,
I'll try my best to keep the thing, the meeting moving and making sure there's not a lot
of lag time in between, you know testifiers waiting for them to jump on the call and so
forth. So we'll try it that way. Okay? I do believe Member Paltin has to leave at 6:00
or before 6:00.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I gotta be in Napili by 6.
CHAIR LEE: So that means you have to leave the office at what time?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: 5:45.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 60
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, so we have five, we have to 5:45 everybody. But let's, let's try
and accommodate everybody, alright? So well see you at 1:30. Meeting in recess.
AND WAS(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 12:00 P.M
RECONVENED AT 1:31 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the regular Council meeting of January 7, 2022, please reconvene.
Members, hope you're all rested and tummies full. Ready to go, ready to resume our
meeting.
Mr. Clerk, we only have 41 to go.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES KRUEGER: Chair the next person signed up to testify is
Kirsten Oleson. To be followed by Rob Weltman.
MS. KIRSTEN OLESON. (testifying on Resolution No. 22-4):
Aloha, I hope you can hear me. I am Kirsten Oleson, 1 am an associate professor of
ecological economics at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, with affiliate status at the
University of Hawaii Economic Research Organization and the Water Resources
Research Center. For over two decades my research has focused on incorporating
nature's contribution to human wellbeing into decisions.
I am pleased to provide testimony today in support of Resolution 22-4, related to Maui's
water. The resolution before you today offers a choice between managing Maui's water
either by providing it to the highest bidder in an auction or through a public entity
capable of recognizing the many values of water that are provided to the people of
Maui. Evaluating the worth of water is a notoriously difficult problem across the globe.
In 2021, the United Nations World Water Development Report noted that water's full
suite of values is rarely incorporated into decision-making. This failure to fully value
water is a root cause of its mismanagement. Our goal here should be a system that
can provide both sustainable and equitable water management. Valuing water as only
a financial commodity will not achieve that goal and is not the path forward to a thriving
Maui.
When I talk about the value of water. I'm not referring to the price of water charged and
when an economic transaction occurs. This price is often set at a level intended to
cover the costs of delivering clean water. But water is far more valuable than this.
Groundwater feed springs and serves as clean reservoirs of drinking water. Flowing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 61
surface water sustain loi and limu, and crashing waterfalls are sought after recreational
destinations.
The problem is that none of these values have obvious prices, so it's easy to ignore
them in decisions that are driven by financial returns. Unfortunately, we often
inadvertently trade off these highly valuable intangible benefits of water for more
tangible economic returns. To make things more difficult, these more tangible benefits
accrue to diverse stakeholders, while the tangible ones are often concentrated in the
interests of a few oversized players. This raises equity concerns.
We see these tradeoffs when land gets developed, reducing the watersheds capacity
to filter and store water when groundwater is extracted at rates greater than natural
recharge causing land subsidence and loss of traditional freshwater sources. And
when streams are diverted, leaving insufficient flow for instream and downstream uses.
So what is to be done? Water management decisions should reflect the full value of
water to society. Economic return should be one criterion, of course, but not to the
exclusion of the other benefits to society. As the UN report points out, those who control
how water is valued, control how it is used.
I support Resolution 22-4, because the County of Maui is charged with protecting the
public trust and therefore is uniquely able to balance waters many values. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Are there any questions, Members?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We still have our testifier. Okay, aloha Miss Oleson. Thank you
for being here, that was really excellent testimony. It sounds like you're well versed in
the process. And so I just wanted to ask you, if you, with this, since you're urging us
to, to pass the resolution, do you think this resolution will stand as evidence that the
Maui County Council wants to consider the purchase and will that, will that result in
maybe eliminating the bidding process.
MS. OLESON: So I’m, my. my understanding is that it would be up to Maui County to set the
criteria for how water would then be allocated. And they would be able to balance.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: No, what I'm asking you is, we were, we were told earlier by the
person who used to chair the Board of Water Supply that somebody, either the Council
or the Administration needs to express interest and that will eliminate the bidding
process. They can do away with that whole bidding process. So is that your
understanding as well from all the knowledge that you've shared with us?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 62
MS. OLESON: Yes, that is my understanding as well.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, either the Council or the Administration. And we can do this.
Okay, good news, thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you very much. May we have the next
testifier please.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Rob
Weltman. To be followed by Nick Drance. Rob Weltman. Then the next testifier is
Nick Drance. Nick Drance, it is your time to testify now. Nick Drance will be followed
by Lahela Aiwohi. Last call, Nick Drance.
MS. LAHELA AIWOHI, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
I'm here.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh, okay then the next testifier is Lahela Aiwohi.
CHAIR LEE: Alright.
MS. AIWOHI: Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers. My name is Lahela Aiwohi and I'm
with the Hawaii Hotel Alliance. I'm testifying today in support of the Mayor's veto on
Bill 148. As a born and raised Maui native, I understand the issues at hand and your
concerns you're trying to address through Bill 148. I'm asking that you consider
supporting the Mayor's veto today to allow us, the hotels, the restaurant owners,
developers, farmers, and any other businesses that would have an impact if Bill 148
passes to come to the table together to find a balanced solution.
Some of the things that I'd like to recognize and suggest as reasons not to pass the
moratorium, are 1) the generated local revenue that we generate. Currently I'm
working with our hotels to collect data on the amount of local merchandise that each
hotel purchases. Local meaning Maui branded. As of today I have a major hotel that's
currently sourcing 90 percent of its produce and products for their restaurants, fresh
produce, beef, fish, beverages, gelato, retail, spa amenities, candies, candles, flowers,
honey, all of it is sourced locally using about 75 different locally owned Maui vendors.
In 2021 this hotel sourced more than $6 million worth of goods from our locally owned
Maui vendors, and that's just one of our hotels.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 63
Secondly, HHA is committed to organizing community partnerships to add to our hotel's
current programs of educating, providing awareness to our visitors, getting our visitors
involved or have the option to be involved in these programs that we, we create that
will help to provide funding and more volunteer efforts to help restore our natural
resources such as water.
Thirdly, HHA understands the concerns. We also understand that there are other
issues to be looked at to help resolve these issues. Short-term rentals are a huge
factor to these issues. We have STR's mixed in our own backyards in our
neighborhoods. I live in Waiohuli, and I see tourists driving through our streets, so
there's no doubt that this is happening right in my backyard. These visitors don't pay
their fair share of taxes. These STR's aren't in the designated locations of the South
and the West side of the island. They're not staying in the hotels, they're not eating in
our restaurants, they're not paying the TAT and the various taxes that help generate
revenue back into the County's economy.
These tourists are forced to find beaches outside of the resort areas, crowding our
beaches. And these tourists are forced to go elsewhere to explore our local treasured
spots, forcing more cars on the side, on the roads and basically creating more traffic
and taking away our treasured spots like I've mentioned. I understand that ZAED
through the Council's budget approval has increased its manpower in identifying illegal
STR's. But I think that we need more.
HHA, is working on a project to map out the legal and the illegal STR's and we plan on
sharing that data with the County and with you as Council, because we want to work
together on this issue. We plan on working on ..  .Council with, with help in monitoring
the STR's.
In closing real quick, HHA recognizes that with Maui being a top traveling destination,
we want to work to tackle our homelessness issue. We want to be sure that we have
sufficient emergency medical responders. We want to be part of the solution on
addressing our housing shortage and affordable housing, and we are committed in
working with you to find the solutions to the issues at hand.
We support the diversification of our economy and we the hotels can be the basis of
agriculture and housing. I hope that we can sit at the table together and work on a
balanced solution. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Ms. Aiwohi.
Member King has a question for you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 64
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, real quickly. Hi, thank you for being here, and your, for
your testimony. You live on Maui?
MS. AlWOHl; I do live on Maui, born and raised.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And then you were talking about having been, seen illegal rentals
in your area.
MS. AlWOHl: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Just wondered, did you report those to the Planning Department?
MS. AlWOHl: Oh. actually, I'm sorry, I didn't, I, not illegal rental, it's, I see tourists in their
rental cars and its clearly rental cars and clearly tourists cause I live in Waiohuli which
is Hawaiian Homes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. I thought you were referring to illegal, illegal short-term
rentals.
MS. AlWOHl: No. no. no and if I do know of any illegal short-term rentals, I will report that
cause I am very much against that.
Okay, just wanted to see if you had some idea aboutCOUNCILMEMBER KING:
effectiveness. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions. Members? If not, thank you very much.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair, Chair, I have a question. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, I'm sorry I didn't hear, see your hand.
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Aloha, Lahela. And thank you for being here.
MS. AlWOHl: Aloha.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: You know you mentioned in your testimony that, that you folks
were interested in monitoring the STR's. Could you expound on that?
MS. AlWOHl: Yes, so we put a plan together, you know, we did, we have met with a lot of
the, a few of the Councilmembers, I think there's only a couple we haven't, and we've
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 65
taken a website that we were able to purchase and it, it identifies all the short-term
rentals that we have on Maui. And, but when you look at the amount of short-term
rentals it is, there is quite an abundance of short-term rentals. The problem is we need
to know which ones are legal and illegal.
And I think that is a huge issue so we have, we're working, we're partnering with, with
a intern, a college internship fraternity, and local people, but they needed to do a
program so they're taking this and they're going to help us decipher, figure out how we
can decipher the illegal STR's versus the legal STR's. And once we get that data which
we're hoping to wrap up in three to four months, we're more than happy to share that
with all of you. And that's our goal is to get that going. And like I said, even draft
legislature, draft some legislation so that we can help monitor issues such as this.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, so thank you and I'd like to, I'm interested in that too. So
if you could keep me in the loop about that, I would appreciate that. Thank you
MS. AlWOHI: Definitely. Mahalo.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any other questions? If not, thank you very much.
One more, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair. I just wanted to clarify that is things that you
are planning on doing either way.
MS. AlWOHI: Yes, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, thank you.
MS. AlWOHI: I very, yeah, cause 1 have quite a few projects that I want to share with the
Council, and I look forward to working with you guys on all of my projects. I think it'll
be very interesting and, and beneficial for all of us.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Aiwohi. Mahalo for your
testimony. My clarifying question is regarding the part in your testimony where you
talked about illegal vacation rentals. So will you explain or define what you mean by
illegal vacation rentals? Is it the vacation rentals in Residential zoned areas or other
zoned areas?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 66
MS. AlWOHI; You know, for me, the illegal rentals, I mean it, it's I want to capture all illegal
vacation rentals. I know that there's more than just housing, and I think we've talked
about that in one of our, in one of the committee meetings. So it doesn't, it's in whatever
area it may be really, so it doesn't matter what the zoning is, if it's illegal and it hasn't
gotten the, the proper permits that it should get, then I believe that that should be
recognized as an illegal short-term, an illegal vacation rental. So it's a, it's a, 1 wanted
to capture all of it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Ms. Aiwohi and I appreciate you
understanding that there are vacation rentals that are permitted in areas that are zoned
Apartment and others and aren't conflating all of that because I don't think everyone
understands that not all STR's require permits if they're zoned, if they're in specific
zones.
MS. AIWOHI: Yes, and mahalo for, for that question though Councilmember Rawlins, and I
think, I believe that that's part of the, you know, part of why it's so important and why I
want to sit down with the Councilmembers or with the certain committees to address
all of these issues so that we can find a solution and we can work together. I believe
that we can. I know that we can.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I'm sure of it and that's absolutely wonderful. And to
clarify the, there has been legislation regarding STR's and trying to, you know, control
the proliferation and Member Paltin actually introduced several legislations. So if you
were wondering about legislation, there has been legislation that's been introduced, so
perhaps we can get them to you. Mahalo.
MS. AIWOHI: Okay, great. Mahalo.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions Members? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next individual we have signed up to testify is Nick
Drance. To be followed by Les Iczkovitz.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Drance.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 67
MR. NICK PRANCE. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-4):
Good afternoon, dream team. Aloha, Nick Drance here. I want to, I speak briefly on
two points. One is Bill, 148, CC 22-9 and then Resolution 22-4. I encourage you to
oyerride the Mayor's yeto of this measure with two main points. One clearly residents
support this measure, actually according to official County documents, which I and
others haye noted seyeral times; and the second point is basic logic supports the
measure in my yiew.
So eyery time you see me. I’m always basing my testimony on the one same single
point that is this island is precious. Please honor and respect it. So the first point,
residents support the measure. Their wishes were codified in the Core Principles and
Mission Statement of the Maui Island Plan written by Erin Wade. I'ye sent you the
original raw data she used to come up with those documents. I'm sure she'd be happy
to discuss what inspired her to write what she did. They state that residents do not
want more yisitors. They do not want the urbanization of the island. They do want to
maintain the small town atmosphere of this place, at least as it was at the time.
Cushman & Wakefield announced the sale of 458 acres for commercial and residential
deyelopment on May 17 of last year that includes 1900 new homes, likely for
mainlanders and significant commercial space. It completely surrounds the Dunes Golf
Course, filling up all the remaining space between the two adjacent tracts. Oh, that's
just one project,
This measure temporarily pauses additional tourist oriented deyelopment that
increases the number of yisitors. It, howeyer, it does permit a great deal of
grandfathered construction. I would think that's  afair compromise to the
Councilmembers with reservations. To me it looks like all this building and population
increase is making a bad problem worse.
So point two, let's look at the logic. What are we really talking about here? All official
tourism organizations and State of Hawaii studies, which I sent you annotated copies
of document that we currently haye what's called unsustainable tourism. Soon we'll
haye unsustainable population back while we import 90 percent of our food. So much
for the resident's definition of quality of life and our reliance on imported food. It makes
it eyen worse than it is not to mention the impact on our natural resources.
And so I ask you, why would anyone here now or anyone who yisits this place, want to
destroy with the same kind of traffic jams and mainland style development that they
came here to escape? I don't understand making these problems worse by not
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 68
overriding this veto. So I would think the number one goal of government would be to
protect this place.
To make matters worse, the reason preservation and protection are not primary is one
thing, money. Is money more important than Maui.  Avote supporting this measure is
a vote expressing our love and respect for this island. A vote against it seems to me
like putting money before Maui. So thank you, that's it for that point.
Next is Resolution 22-4. This is actually it's, it, if it wasn't so sad it would be funny
regarding the East Maui water district. The County should manage this critical
resource. Aside from it being reasonable, prudent, and logical, not renewing the lease
with the former leaseholder would end years of misuse, neglect, and unfair water
distribution that resident stakeholders are forced to accept.
I sent a letter when the draft was introduced back in 2019, pointing out what appeared
to be inadequacies that I saw. In September of last year on the occasion of the hastily
scheduled DLNR hearing, I received this response from Keola Cheng, Director of
Planning for the Wilson Okamoto Corporation, representing Alexander and Baldwin.
I'm no expert, but it wouldn't take much to recognize the absurdity of the response and
the obvious obfuscation that dominates that FEIS. Discussion of it in front of the BLNR
was surprisingly brief. There's so much redundancy in the report it was impossible to
wade through, there's so many pages and pull out important information.
A representative for Wilson Okamoto said that he could summarize some important
about 14 minutes but they didn't have time for that in the meeting. So the point was
made a few times that accepting the FEIS did not guarantee lease renewal, and
perhaps that's the reason the meeting was so brief was that it was expected that the
lease would have other parties apply for it. Not that I think that's right, but in any case,
the hearing seemed like, more like a dog and pony show to me.
I'd be happy to send you the letter I got. And State Representative Wildberger and
Lucienne and others also testified at that hearing, and they would probably be happy
to share you. with you their thoughts. These are reasons why the County should
manage this and why A&B, the lease should not be given to them. Soto me and others,
it was a disaster. If that's the best A&B can do. I'm sure you'd agree that they are
incapable of properly maintaining and managing this critical resource. Even as a
novice to these things, that was not hard to see at all. Mahalo, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
MR. DRANCE: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 69
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Clerk, chop, chop.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK; The next individual we have signed up to testify is Les Iczkovitz.
To be followed by Samasoni Tamasese.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Mr. Iczkovitz. We can't hear you.
(testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and ResolutionMR. LES ICZKOVITZ.
No. 22-6):
Can you hear me now?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. ICZKOVITZ: Thank you so much. So again, thank you for the opportunity to testify this
afternoon. I'm testifying first on two items, one briefly on Resolution item 22-6. I'm in
support of this item going to the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee first
instead of going straight to the Maui Planning Commission. This would give the
Members a chance to look it over and really discuss it in Committee before having to
make decisions and make the changes of recommendations before it goes to the
Planning Commission. I think that this would be a. I think this would be a much more
efficient use of the time, of the resources of the Councilmembers, and I would
encourage you to, to just take that extra step and just and send it to the land use
committee, the Sustainable Land Use Committee first.
The other matter 1 want to testify is regarding the overturning on 22-9, overturning the
Mayor's veto of the new transient, the mortarium of the new transient accommodations.
I'm in favor of overriding the Mayor's veto. We just have enough hotels and
condominiums already in Hawaii, on Maui especially. And it's really about the quality
of life for everybody who's living on Maui. We have a beautiful, unique island, we
should treat it as the precious resource that it is.
We all remember just how badly the island was overrun when the, when the, when it
was reopened after, for COVID. And we have a lot of people, there's nobody is saying
there's not enough hotels or condos for people who want to come to Maui to stay here.
We have enough. And what we're talking about as 1 understand the moratorium is a
pause. We're not talking about a permanent moratorium, we're talking about giving the
island a break, giving it opportunities to really assess what, what's needed here and
what what works here, and and really what's best for this precious resource .... that
is, you know, unique in the world. So I just encourage the, the overturn the Mayor's
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 70
veto and to allow this moratorium to go into place. We, we need to protect this precious
island. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next testifier is Samasoni Tamasese. To be followed by
Pamela Tumpap.
MR. SAMASONI TAMASESE. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Hello everybody, good afternoon. Hope everybody can hear me. My name is Sammy
Tamasese. I was born and raised on the Big Island of Hawaii. We moved to Lanai in
the early 90s to work on the Manele Bay Hotel with my parents. I just wanted to
communicate to everybody how important the construction industry was to my family
and to me personally. My dad was a backhoe operator, my mom was a landscaper. I
personally was able to go to a very good school on the Big island, HPA during high
school because my family had a good paying job, right? Part of that is because the
construction industry gives local families high paying work.
Not every, not every job has that, sorry. I'm getting emotional about this, but hotels are
already built. They're already on the beaches, and adding more hotel rooms, you know,
it gives us more work. It gives high paying jobs to our families, and you know, it's, I
don't want there to be more hotels if you're going to build one in Kahakuloa, that'd be
a totally different thing. If you're going to build one in Waiehu, that's different, right?
But in Wailea, Lahaina, adding hotel rooms to these places is, I think, benefits. I don't
blame the tourists if they want to come enjoy Hawaii. Most of them go home. You
know they don't understand all the nuances of the culture, but they're not bad people.
So anyways, I personally, 1 oppose the moratorium on the hotel because, you know,
growing up we would get laid off six months, no work, right? So it's, it's an important
thing to have continuous work for us and high paying work that the hotels provide.
Resorts and all that 1 mean, you know my family's been here in Hawaii since the eight
or 1870s my mom's side came from the South China, my dad came to Hawaii in the
70s from Samoa. The opportunity we get here is great. Like I said, I lived in Lanai, we
worked over there from 2013 to, you know 2016 or 2017, then I worked here at Four
Seasons down in Wailea.
So anyways, I know a lot of the people who came on here have different opinions, but
I'm just saying from a community standpoint, as a local kid who grew up here and 1
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 71
have a good career now, I just want to say that you know it does matter having
continuous work, you know. Having a six-month, two-year moratorium could, you
know, make people move to Las Vegas or leave the State or move islands? You know
that stuff does happen. So anyways, that's just all I wanted to say.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, no questions. Thank you. Oh, one question.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Just kind of clarifying.  Ilike your name by the way. But I
just want to say I'm impressed that you're so grateful to what your parents provided by
your emotions. So thank you.
MR. TAMASESE: No, I appreciate that. I wasn't planning on getting emotional, but as I think
about the opportunities I was given. At my school, all the local kids, all their families
were contractors, right? You know, it's, it's an opportunity that you can get as a local
family.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any more questions? If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: The next testifier is Pamela Tumpap. To be followed by Carol
Lee Kamekona.
(testifying on CountyMS. PAMELA TUMPAP. MAUI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha and shuprobhat and Happy New Year. I'm here to testify on Bill 148, which has
the potential to affect many areas of our local economy beyond accommodations,
limiting growth, deterring investments, and reducing opportunities, which is why we
signed on to a multi-industry letter of 16 partners asking you to sustain the Mayor's
veto.
To help illustrate the importance of the accommodations industry to local businesses
we launched a survey just late yesterday afternoon as we were hearing some didn't
understand some of the connections and why businesses would be impacted. We had
20 businesses ring in who do business with the accommodations industry. Forty
percent of those, so eight businesses said that over 50 percent of their business comes
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 72
from the accommodations industry. But they reported from those eight businesses
over $66,442,000 is generated annually. These impacts included local manufacturers,
food service activities, including golf courses, retail, and construction. However, we
also have restaurants, agriculture, events, nonprofits, and many others who are
impacted.
The concern over lack of transparency on the process comes from the second and final
reading process where significant floor amendments were adopted after public
testimony, so we didn't have a chance to ring in and the bill passed, without vetting and
testimony on the amendments. We are also concerned by the change on exemptions
for projects that have not received final discretionary approval given the significant
time, effort, and money it takes to even get close to that point. Put a two-year hold
preventing projects who have spent years moving forward is unfair and devastating.
And this clearly impacts one key community partner, the Grand Wailea, which would
have generated significant positive economic impacts when they proceeded. So you
know, it's important to recognize they support many industries, nonprofits, community
efforts. And when the Made in Maui County Festival, through no part of our, fault of
our own or local issues went down and we had to reschedule it twice, the Grand Wailea
generously donated $5,000 from their advertising budget to help promote the
rescheduled date. They have done this and many other things for our community.
We continually hear businesses, workers, and citizens say we want affordable housing,
economic diversification, better tourism management and enforcement of illegal short
term rentals. These are top priorities, and efforts continue to move. And on the tourism
management a great deal is being done and we encourage you to meet with industry
leaders and talk to all affected parties, to come up with meaningful and positive
solutions before we look at things like a moratorium. Check out and get involved with
the . . . process. There's a lot of work underway and a lot of avenues to create other
fixes, and we feel there are better ways to address our top priorities without putting
moratoriums in place. And we don't support them in general as we've shared before
But we particularly need flexibility during this time of COVID when we're also seeing
local providers who are . . . and many other impacts to businesses. So for these
reasons, we ask that you please let Mayor Victorino's veto stand, and we appreciate
the opportunity to provide testimony.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members.
Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 73
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So thank you for testifying. What was the numbers that
you gave from your survey yesterday?
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you and, and, and I will say that this was a very late survey, and the
survey came about because we heard there was some disconnect with the broader
business impact so that we, it was very late, so we've only had 20 responses. So
40 percent of those 20 responses, which equates to eight businesses said over
50 percent of their business, there were other levels starting with zero impact all the
way up to 100 percent, over 50 percent said that they're, fifty, eight said that 50, over
50 percent of their business comes from the accommodations industry and equates to
$66,442,000 annually.
The survey will continue, and we will give you an update when we have the final details,
but even we were surprised at those numbers and that was with responses that came
in over a few hours.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you very much. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Aloha, Ms. Tumpap. Mahalo for your
testimony.
MS. TUMPAP: Thank you. Aloha.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My question is regarding your statement of the
significant amendments that were made on second and final. Which amendment do
you consider significant, and is that the one that Member Sugimura put on the agenda
so it was properly noticed?
MS. TUMPAP: We have, to be honest with you I'm not sure which amendment Member
Sugimura put on the agenda so that it was properly noted. But there were floor
amendments that again, when the floor, we don't, in terms of a process we don't agree
with doing floor amendments on second and final reading and moving things forward.
We have many issues with other amendments that we’ve rung in on throughout the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 74
process. And there were continued amendments that people did not get to testify on
later in that day after testimony was already given. So no, it wouldn't just be
amendments to, for clarification. It was beyond that, and we have deep concerns over
the changing of the affordable housing units from one to one, to one to three. We have
concerns over the two-year hold, and we have concerns over not incorporating the
Planning Commission's recommendations.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; So those weren't amendments that were made on
second and final. There were only two amendments made on second and final, which
one is significant? That you said-
MS. TUMPAP: Unfortunately I don't have my notes on that in front of me and 1 wasn't able to
personally watch it. That was my legislative aide. But we, I can tell you that the
amendments, if those weren't the two amendments that were made, the amendments
that were made had significant concerns for us and I can get back to you on that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So you don't know how they're significant if you don't
know-
MS. TUMPAP: I've answered your question, Keani, you've asked me for a response, and I've
given you an answer.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, so you don't know. Mahalo. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Pam, you can provide that through email or in the chat later, okay.
MS. TUMPAP: Right, I will provide it in the chat, cause I'll connect with Amber right now.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any more questions Members?
If not Mr. Clerk.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next person we have signed up to testify is Carol Lee
Kamekona. To be followed by Jared Higashi.
MS. CAROL LEE KAMEKONA, (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-9 & 22-13 and
Resolution Nos. 22-3. 22-4. & 22-5):
Aloha, can you guys see me and hear me okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 75
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Carol Lee.
MS. KAMEKONA: . . . You can't see me, I’m unmuted.
CHAIR LEE; No we can hear you, but we can't see you.
MS. KAMEKONA: Okay, is it okay though if I keep going.
CHAIR LEE: Sure.
MS.KAMEKONA: You need to see me?
CHAIR LEE; No.
MS. KAMEKONA: It's unmuted as far as I see on my computer.
CHAIR LEE: It's okay, just keep going cause you coming in clear so that's the main thing.
MS. KAMEKONA: . . . kala mai. Hauoli makahiki hou  .. . shuprobhat. . . Mahalo, Madam
Chair, Vice-Chair and Members for allowing me to testify today. My name is Carol Lee
Kamekona. I am representing myself and I am not a paid lobbyist. Hello, my staff I
failed to put Resolution 22-3 on as part of my test. . . and just add to that. As a strong
affordable housing . . . asking for our unshel...  Iam in staunch support of Reso 22-3.
With regard to Resolution 22-4.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you're freezing up. You, you want to take the video off, mute your video
again. Carol Lee, can you say something?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, I see that Carol Lee is still in the call. She is unmuted,
but we're not hearing her, I think she might have encountered some sort of technical
issue.
(See pages 77, 85, and 86 for conclusion of testimony.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, let's move on to the next one and come back to her, okay?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair the next testifier is Jared Higashi.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 76
MR. JARED HIGASHI. HAWAi'l LODGING AND TOURISM ASSOCIATION, (testifying on
County Communication No. 22-9):
Hi, aloha.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
MR. HIGASHI: First of all aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Maui County Council. My
name is Jared Higashi, and I am testifying today on behalf of the Hawaii Lodging and
Tourism Association on County Communication 22-9 in support of Mayor Victorino's
veto of Bill 148. I'll keep this brief, as you've all heard a lot of testimony thus far, and
you've all received the letters that have been sent by my President and CEO Mufi
Hannemann, with a number of other businesses, labor, community, and trade
associations signing on, something that Ms. Tumpap had mentioned earlier in her
testimony.
It is our position that this measure will not adequately address the Council's goal of
limiting the number of visitors who travel to Maui. It's clear that the vast majority of
increased transient accommodations in Maui County isn't with the traditional brick-and-
mortar hotels, which employs many of our friends, family members in Maui County.
But it's with the transient vacation rental market, both illegal and legal. And this is, if
this measure were to be implemented, travelers will have no shortage of alternate
accommodations where they can stay if they remain unchecked.
By limiting the expansion of traditional hotels and resorts . . . clear measures and
oversight with the short-term rental market, it will further drive more visitors to these
accommodations which will place further stress on Maui's affordable housing market
for local residents. And they will have a residual effect on the local construction sector,
the skill trades, and many other businesses that do rely on tourism. At the end of the
day, a resilient and sustainable tourism economy welcoming respectable visitors will
spread dollars throughout Maui County to help our small businesses and local
businesses, and working people is a goal I think we all can agree on.
We are ready as an industry and willing to work with the Council and the Administration
to identify alternative strategies and programs, initiatives to better manage tourism. But
this measure is not the answer. We therefore ask that you vote to sustain the Mayor's
veto and again, thank you very much for this opportunity to testify.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
Mr. Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 77
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, Carol Lee Kamekona is back in the call. Carol Lee, it is
your turn to testify again.
MS. KAMEKONA: Okay, shall we try this again?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KAMEKONA: Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KAMEKONA: Okay, so starting from the beginning again as a strong advocate for
affordable housing and housing for unsheltered, I am in staunch support of Resolution
22-3.
With regard . . .
CHAIR LEE: Carol Lee, we can't hear you again. See, she's muted, she muted herself, yeah.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Carol Lee, if.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, we're going to have to move on, come back to her again.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Carol Lee, you might want to consider try calling in to testify.
That might be better for, for you.
Chair the next person signed up to testify is Bobbie Best. To be followed by Anmarie
Mabbutt. Bobby Best it is your time to testify, I see that you're in the meeting. You're
muted on your end, we cannot unmute you.
MS. BOBBIE BEST, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution No. 22-6):
I went star. . .
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Bobbie Best, last call.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, next.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Chair, the next, the next testifier is Anmarie Mabbutt.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 78
MS. BEST: Can you hear me? Wait a minute, can you hear me, I'm Bobbie.
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK: Oh yes, we can hear you.
MS. BEST: Okay. I'm happy to be able to testify and I'm in favor of item 22-6 to have the
Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee, first review the material before it goes
to the Planning Commission. A couple other people have already testified on this and
so you know what I'm talking about, yeah?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. BEST: Okay, I sent in some testimony about the moratorium. And 1 just want to say that
I've lived on Maui 50 years and when I first came to Hawaii, I said I hope they don't let
this become like Miami Beach. And we've watched as tourism grew into the point
where people started objecting after COVID.
And I'm happy that we have a sustainability committee, that we have the environmental
committee, because when I was a librarian, nobody was interested in the
environmental and ecology books that we just kept buying them and they get updated
and we buy some more, and nobody was reading them. So I know that our State Is
quite aware.
And it's always going to be a decision about jobs. But we can't have endless as Keani
Rawlins-Fernandez says, there has to be a point where we can't just keep getting more
and more and more, at the same time having an ecology that works for us. So naturally
jobs are going to be talked about, but people on Maui can always find a job building
things because we know if you're looking for a handyman or a builder you can never
find one. So I, I'm for the moratorium until we figure out what to do.
So thanks for all your work, I can see how complicated your job is and there's so much
input that you have to sift through, and you guys don't get paid enough, whatever it is.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members?
If not, Mr. Clerk, proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: It's Miss Clerk and our next testifier is Anmarie, Anmarie Mabbutt. To be
followed by Glen Kaneshige.
CHAIR LEE: James, how different you look. Miss Mabbutt.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 79
MS. ANMARIE MABBUTT, (testifying on Countv Communication Nos. 22-6 and 22-7):
Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I'm speaking today on County Communication 22-6
and 22-7. I'm speaking as a resident, an open government advocate, and as someone
who loves Maui and is concerned for the health and safety of its residents.
CC 22-7 is a letter dated 12/10/21 from Finance Director Teruya informing the Council
of the County's receipt of its first installment of ARPA funds, $16,259,395. These funds
were received on May 19, 2021. Why did it take more than six months to inform the
Council of the receipt of these funds? The Fiscal Year 2022 Budget ordinance requires
the Administration to provide the Council at least once a month a report on the status
of efforts to obtain and expend Federal COVID relief funds. Do you know how the
County is spending the ARPA funds?
I  cannot find one instance in which the Council has included proposed ARPA
expenditures as a separate agenda item for a Council meeting. The neighbor islands
and Honolulu County have been openly and publicly discussing ARPA funding and
expenditures at properly noticed public Council meetings for more than six months.
Maui residents deserve to know how the County's ARPA funds are being spent and to
be given a meaningful opportunity to participate in that discussion.
Per the Fiscal Year 2022 First Quarterly Report, the County has spent $2,850,000 and
and encumbered 150,000 in ARPA funds, all for economic support. Specifically, a
$3 million grant to the Maui County Federal Credit Union for an economic support
program. MCFCU has already received $12,075,000 in County CARES Act funds,
which is 18.13 percent of the County's total CARES Act allocation, and almost 2 million
more than the total amount that the County spends on public health.
Mayor Victorino had promised to spend approximately $21 million in CARES Act funds
on public health, but according to the most recent CARES Act monthly report, as of
December 8, 21, the County has spent only 10,633,000 on public health. If you truly
care about the residents of Maui County, please do not allow what happened with the
CARES Act funds to happen again.
Based on a review of the County's monthly contracts/grants reports as of
November 30, 21, the County does not appear to have spent a single cent of ARPA
funds on public health. I do not see a single contract or grant paid for with ARPA funds.
What is happening with this money?
The past two weeks, every day hundreds of Maui residents have been struggling to
find testing. Many residents are currently waiting up to a week or more for a testing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 80
appointment and I have read far too many posts from parents who have sat waiting in
line for hours, with sick children to try to get  aCOVID test. This is not acceptable,
especially when it appears you've gone to efforts to achieve essential work status for
the Council, essential worker status for the Councilmembers so that you are able to
receive prioritized access to free quality testing.
During the August 25, 2021 private Council Chair meeting, Chair Lee said "we need to
make sure that our employees have access to testing--well, and preferably the quality
testing--as soon as possible. You know, we can't afford to be standing in line and so
forth." There was no mention of expanded quality testing for residents. We are in
crisis, the mistakes with the CARES Act funding cannot happen again. The Council
needs to prioritize public health over economic gain and tourism profits. The Council
should be actively publicly advocating to use ARPA funds to provide more free testing
to the public and free high-quality masks to residents, including the keiki, teachers, and
staff at the County schools. The Council should also advocate for using our ARPA
funds to pay for isolation and quarantine options, including hotel rooms, palate homes
and tents for any resident who needs it.
Moving onto my next item, CC 22-6, is a letter dated December 10, 2021, from Finance
Director Teruya, informing the Council of the receipt of an additional $8,761,000 in
ARPA funds on August 12, 2021. Again, why did it take Director Teruya more than
four months to inform the Council of the County's receipt of an additional $8,700,000
in ARPA funds. This delay clearly appears to violate Bill 46 (2021), the Fiscal Year
2022 Budget ordinance which requires the Administration to provide a report at least
once a month to the Council regarding the status of efforts to obtain and expend
Federal COVID relief funds. Based on the letters from Director Teruya, the County has
now received over $25 million in ARPA funds and plans to receive an additional
8,761,000 for a total of nearly $34 million.
Flow does the County plan to spend this money? Flave you asked the Mayor if he has
created a private economic taskforce, similar to his private CARES Act economic
taskforce to discuss the allocation of the ARPA funds? Mayor's economic taskforce for
the CARES Act met in secret for nearly four months before Mayor Victorino finally
revealed the identity of the taskforce members in July 2020. Five of the 21 members
of the Mayor's CARES Act economic taskforce represented organizations that received
over $21 million of the County's total CARES Act allocation. That is 31.58 percent.
Residents are concerned that as with the CARES Act funds, the decisions about how
the County's ARPA funds are being spent is happening behind closed doors. Maui
County residents deserve and need better.
To quote from the September 22, 2001 [sic] Council Chair meeting, Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez said "moving forward with the ARPA funds, I think, as Member
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 81
Kama stated, if we have a better understanding of what qualifies for ARPA funds so
that when we do submit requests, we’re able to get them funded, right, under the ARPA
funds, and, and collaborate in that way. And we don’t have to wait for a BFED
Committee meeting to collaborate. Members are also welcome to, you know, have
meetings with the Administration to get these items funded."
This does not sound like a Council committed to transparency and accountability.
BFED-85 is the Council's Federal COVID Relief fund item. Of the 32 BFED meetings
held in 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Can you please, can you please conclude your testimony?
MS. MABBUTT: Sure, I'll skip over. I realize no one is perfect and we all make mistakes.
What is important is accepting responsibility for our mistakes and doing all that we can
to make it right. The residents of Maui County desperately need your help now. Thank
you for your time today.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much. Miss Mabbutt.
MS. MABBUTT: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier is Glen Kaneshige, followed by Phillip Lowenthal.
(testifying on CountyMR. GLEN KANESHIGE, NORDIC PCL CONSTRUCTION
Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha kakou and good afternoon. My name is Glen Kaneshige and I'm the President
of Nordic PCL Construction and I'm here to testify in support of the Mayor's veto to
Bill 148. We're a, we're a local general contractor founded in Honolulu in 1938 and we
have worked on projects on all the major islands. Our portfolio of projects on Maui
goes back many years, includes retail, commercial, healthcare, institutional. We are
currently building the new high school for the Department of Education in Kihei.
Over the last decade we have built the Montage at Kapalua, the Hyatt Residence Club
at Kaanapali, and most recently in 2020 we completed the new Villas at the Andaz
Wailea, Wailea, Maui. All three developments were new from the ground up projects
on existing hotel properties. And approximately 75 percent of the work that we have
done on Maui has been new transient accommodations.
We oppose Bill 148 and support the Mayor's veto. The moratorium on new transient
accommodation on Maui would stop construction on new hotel and timeshare
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 82
developments that would employ many craftworkers such as carpenters, masons,
electricians, plumbers, sheet metalworkers, HVAC technicians, operating engineers,
painters, etc. Also, construction material suppliers would be facing a drop in sales for
products such as ready-mix concrete, aggregate, lumber, plywood, drywall, masonry,
piping, electrical wiring, etc. All those things that go into putting up a new building.
The construction industry relies on the development of new transient accommodation
on Maui to keep the local workforce gainfully employed. The moratorium would
jeopardize our ability to keep our Maui employees  .. . employed and result in higher
unemployment, or workers having to move to the neighbor islands where there is more
work. Or workers leaving the construction industry for lower paying jobs that cannot
support the quality of life they had enjoyed.
You know the COVID-19 pandemic has cast much uncertainty over the State's
economy and the local economy on Maui. The record number of, of 4800 infections
yesterday punctuates the fact that we are not out of the woods with this pandemic.
Construction has always been a vehicle to stimulate an economy with the creation of
jobs and the resulting infusion of capital. And that being said, we're not, we do not
believe that would be in the best interest of Maui, for the County to risk imposing a
moratorium on the development of new transient accommodations that could severely
restrict construction, especially in this time of economic uncertainty in an ongoing
pandemic.
We support smart gro\A4h in resort areas for all the reasons others have already
testified. We encourage Maui County Council to allow the Mayor's veto of Bill 148 to
stand. Thank you for this opportunity to testify on this very important matter. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Kaneshige. Members, questions. No questions, thank you.
Mr. Clerk, Miss Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Phillip Lowenthal. To be followed by Carol Lee
Kamekona.
MR. PHILLIP LOWENTHAL. (testifying on Resolution No. 22-4):
Good afternoon. I'm Phillip Lowenthal. I'm happy to see you. Thank you for working
so hard, we appreciate your service. I've been a lawyer on Maui going on 52 years
and I'm testifying as Vice-Chair of the Haiku Community Association and Chair of the
Haiku Community Association Subcommittee on Water. So I'm testifying in support of
Resolution 22-4. You've heard testimony about it today. It was all, i thought it was
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 83
very good and I'm not going to repeat it but there are couple points I think I'd like to
make that, it came up in the course of the testimony.
One is, although I'm not your attorney, I think you must be very careful if you're thinking
that you can rely on this resolution as the notice to the State that you're interested in a
lease or, or in negotiating on it. If you look at the resolution carefully as . . . I'm sure
you have, you'll see under the therefore, the resolved part, paragraph two is the only
one that really addresses this, and all you really doing is urging the Mayor to begin to
negotiate which you know to talk to the State about it. You're not telling the State,
we're interested, and we want to do this. And, although you can argue that, you don't
want to be in a position to say this is all you got, I don't think. So I wouldn't rely on that
as the notice.
You know this resolution, it's obvious you don't want Oahu-centric control over the East
Maui Watershed because water, unlike many resources, is really unique to each island.
Our water, Maui doesn't go anywhere else. It's just here and it's going to be used here
or whatever is going to happen to it happens here. So, we in Maui should be the ones
talking about what happens to the water.
I'm concerned about the language of the lease as it talks about giving somebody 30
years to decide how to divert the water. That seems to be completely contrary to the
public trust doctrine. There's no fiduciary duty on Mahi Pono or any of those folks. The
only people we can look to for fiduciary duties are, are you guys.
And so that your responsibility is to approve this resolution and do it now. Don't send
it to Committee because you know how, you heard the testimony support, they're,
they're doing this now. If some decisions are going to be made in the next six months,
you know better than I do government timetables means that's that's on the front burner
now. And so if you send it to Committee, you're basically killing it. So I strongly urge
you. on behalf of the folks in Haiku, pass it now, don't send it to Committee. Mahalo
and aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Phil. Questions.
Member Kama and then King.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Lowenthal for being here. So
1 just want to make sure I'm clear if I understood maybe what you didn't say. But to me
it almost makes sense to just if this Council wants to purchase EMI, that we should just
put in for an application for at least for AMI, EMI. Is that what you're kind of like leading
to?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 84
MR. LOWENTHAL: No, I'm not saying that. The mechanics are not really included in this
resolution. This resolution, I don't think you're ready to include them in the resolution.
Typically when you want the County to do something with the State, you urge the Mayor
to make an MOD and deal with the folks on the State level on behalf. He's Executive
branch, you're the Legislative branch.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes.
MR. LOWENTHAL: And so I don't think this resolution does that. This resolution is just the
urging of the Mayor get involved, let’s get going.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah.
MR. LOWENTHAL: That's all you can expect from this resolution, which is a good start. That's
as far as you're going to get today.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yep, yep, that's true. Thank you. Thank you. Chair.
MR. LOWENTHAL: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, thank you, Chair. So aloha Phil, thanks for your testimony.
Do you disagree with the two earlier testifiers who said that this resolution could suffice
as a letter of interest showing the County, County's interests in, in having the lease?
MR. LOWENTHAL: Oh, I don't disagree with the word could, which I interpret to mean might.
But I mean somebody who would say it didn't, would, would have a strong argument.
And, and you don't want it to be ambiguous.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Right, but you, you're urging  .. .
MR. LOWENTHAL: . . . because it's too important.  ..
COUNCILMEMBER KING: . . . strong and far enough. So are you saying that we should put
the language in to make it stronger?
MR. LOWENTHAL: I think it's really probably up to the Mayor. And you're urging the Mayor
to get involved and do it now. If, if your Corp. Counsel says you can do it, then I would
do it, but this this resolution doesn't do that. That's what I would think it would be a
separate document. And, but--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 85
COUNCILMEMBER KING; You don't think it could be put into this resolution, just the
commitment of the Council.
MR. LOWENTHAL: I'm not an expert in the mechanics of this thing. I, all 1 know is that I, I
don't think it is there. I'm not sure exactly how you do it, but this is urging the Mayor to
do something and he, he could do it. I think that's probably the way to go, but-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We haven't been real successful in urging the Mayor to do
anything. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions?
MR. LOWENTHAL; Thank you for, you guys work hard. Thank you so much.
CHAIR LEE; Thanks, Phil. Happy New Year.
MR. LOWENTHAL: Yeah, Happy New Year.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions.
If not, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Carol Lee Kamekona. To be followed by Mark Deakos.
CHAIR LEE: Carol Lee, you don't have to talk, Carol Lee you don’t have to talk about 22-3.
MS. KAMEKONA: Okay, can you guys hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. KAMEKONA: Finally. Okay, third times a charm. Kupuna .... You said not 22-3. Okay,
so with regard to Reso 22-4, 1 am in support of public trust resources being in public
hands rather than our only choice being a foreign corporation. I  agree with
Mr. Scheuer, that this resolution could benefit from further vetment in Committee.
I'm in 100 percent support of Resolution 22-5, urging the United States Navy to
permanently remove and relocate the bulk fuel storage located at KapGkakT, Red Hill.
Ola I Ka Wai, ka wai ike ola.
I am also in support of forwarding County Communication 22-13, transmitting the
Department of Parks and Recreation's Beach Parks Vulnerability and Adaptation Study
Phase I, to the appropriate Council Committee for review and discussion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 86
And now onto my final and most passionate of all. As most of you listened earlier this
week to brief summarizations of several affordable housing projects in the pipe for Maui
County and its residents, I urge you to override the Mayor's veto of County
Communication 22-9, Bill 148. It's a known fact that Maui is in desperate need of
affordable housing. It's not the scarcity of resources that contributes to this lack of
availability, it's the continued perception of dependency on tourism and offshore
investments.
We don't need any more hotels built by developers who blatantly destroy our history,
desecrate our archaeological sites, and disinter our iwi kupuna for self-gratification and
greed. We don't need hotels like the Grand Wailea adding another 220 plus rooms to
their existing inventory, adding to the existing family pool which will utilize about 45,000
gallons, . .. another adult pool making total usage of approximately 155,000 gallons.
You, this current Council has the opportunity to make smart decisions that impact the
future of Maui and each of our seven generations out. You have the opportunity to say
to your constituents we're listening and we hear you. We'll do our best to not make
you have to fight each and every development or project on your dime or time. That's
our kuleana. It's time the residents of Maui County are made the number one priority.
Concluding my testimony to say I am not against development. I just want to see smart
development. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Any questions. Members? If not, thank you.
Madam Clerk.
MS. KAMEKONA: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Mark Deakos. To be followed by Benny Capalnas.
MR. MARK DEAKOS, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Happy New Year, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. My name is Mark Deakos,
Chief Sustainability Officer, 3-P Consulting, 25-year resident speaking in support of the
tourist housing moratorium. Res. 22-9. Well, first of all, someone already pointed out
you can't get a contractor for at least six months cause they're so busy. So I don't think
their work is in jeopardy here.
But I would like to address this ongoing narrative that the people of Maui cannot survive
without the continued growth of the tourist economy. Since we do now live in money
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 87
based economy, it's totally understandable that jobs are needed in order to survive
here. But at the same time, we need to remember that Maui at one time supported
over a million people, long before the Matson ships brought in all their bananas from
Ecuador, long before the planes brought in millions of tourists to our beaches. So the
100,000 residents of Maui should certainly be able to survive perfectly fine without
endless need for hotels, especially since more than two-thirds of the money entering
the hotel leaves the island, while Maui residents absorb 100 percent of the footprint.
So to answer Councilmember Rawiins-Fernandez earlier question on how do we
ensure long term jobs without infinite tourism growth and within our resource limits.
Will we need to look more holistically at our local jobs and long-term resiliency those
jobs provide. For example, what if we had a job,  asingle job that controls stormwater,
protect our reefs which recharged aquifers, to address our drought and water needs
that stabilize soils, restored its health, which captures 10 times more carbon, help meet
our sequestration goals, restores ecosystem functions while producing highly nutritious
food to help with our food security and independence issues.
This is what regenerative ag jobs could accomplish locally, which are not affected when
the planes and the ship stop coming. And this is just one example of resilient jobs that
heal rather than degrade our communities and our environment. That are decoupled
from the stronghold of large mainland corporations. Many others exist around
affordable housing and other areas of needs, so I think, we can all agree that just doing
more of the same is not going to fix our issues. So thank you for supporting and
continuing to support the moratorium bill. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members. No questions. Thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Benny Capalnas. To be followed by Kevin Pemberton.
MR. BENNY CAPALNAS, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Benny Capalnas. I'm a local project manager for
a flooring contractor that operates both on Maui and Oahu. And I would like to keep
mine short just to allow for everyone to speak. But I'm here to testify against this
Bill 148, CC-09.
After a difficult year of shutdowns and layoffs both, I can speak for myself and fellow
coworkers we depend on hotel new renovations and construction. This is revenue that
we believe, and I believe specifically that is desperately needed for both the State and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 88
Hawaii families such as myself. Our company employs many local Maui union laborers
and superintendents who work on this, and they need to provide for their families. This
directly impacts me and my family negatively and I'd like to express my frustration with
this moratorium. So I just want to be concise, but that's it. Thank you everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Questions, Members.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kevin Pemberton. To be followed by David Dorn.
MR. KEVIN PEMBERTON, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha Chair Lee and Maui County Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE: Could you speak louder, please?
MR. PEMBERTON: Yes, can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: A little louder.
MR. PEMBERTON: How's this good.
CHAIR LEE: Perfect, perfect.
MR. PEMBERTON: Aloha, Chair Lee, Maui County Councilmembers. Really just wanted to
thank you for your time to hear all the voices for all of the testifying residents and
stakeholders. Recognize your time, this is important . . . points everyone is making
today, so I will be brief. I am testifying today as a longtime Maui resident in support of
consideration to sustain Michael Victorino’s bill, veto of Bill 148, which would create the
moratorium on the issuance of building permits for new lodging accommodations
throughout Maui.
All of us as community, as community members we look to affect change in our home,
balancing the needs and desires of residents and visitors, and to improve the quality
of life for our future generations. The concerns that have really prompted this testimony
are are ones of potentially inadvertent consequences for the overall community,
primarily through the lack of consideration for the gro\A/th of short-term rental units and
the adverse impact on local businesses and tradespeople.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 89
In light of these concerns, I just humbly voice this testimony to support the
consideration to sustain the veto on Bill 148 until such a time that thorough sustainable
tourism alternatives can be reviewed, and final legislation can be crafted to achieve
balanced tourism with the openness and transparency that such an impactful bill
deserves. Mahalo for your time and consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members.
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kevin Pemberton. To be followed by David Dorn, wait
did I say?
CHAIR LEE: Didn't we just have him?
COUNTY CLERK: Sorry, wrong one. David Dorn, to be followed by the testifier calling in on
telephone last four digits 1665.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Dorn left the call.
Madam Clerk, now he joined the call again. Dave, David, are you there?
MR. DAVID DORN, (testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution Nos. 22-4
& 22-5):
Hello this is David, I clicked the wrong button.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MR. DORN: Hello, Councilmembers. My name is David Dorn, I'm speaking today on behalf
of myself and the Sierra Club of Maui, Maui Chapter. Briefly, the Resolution 22-4, the
East Maui Water leases, I support the proposed resolution to have the State and
County control over East Maui water. I'm against the irrevocable 30-year water leases
for Maui Mahi Pono. We need autonomy over our own water and that's a public trust.
Resolution 22-5 on Red Hill. As a watershed advocate, I support efforts urging the
United States Navy to permanently remove and relocate the bulk fuel shortage [sic]
facility. This pollution of the watershed is forever, and we're always dealing with
pollution of the aquifer here on Maui and other places, so we have to stop the
contamination now for future generations.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 90
Item 22-9 the visitor accommodation moratorium override. I  beseech you to override
the Mayor's veto. We've all taken a lot of our time, your valuable time to come up with
this bill. We cannot allow the Mayor to veto our hard efforts and undermine the
democratic process. We are asking to overturn this unjustified veto.
I've testified many times before you, as the tourism business owner, like many people
on Maui have been engaged directly and indirectly with the tourism industry. Myself
for over 25 years. And we think there's too much tourists. Maui is sick from imbalanced
tourism industry, we're overrun with too many tourists that have far exceeded the
island's capacity, Maui Island Plan, etc.
Too much of our water goes to hotels and resorts and families cannot get water meters
and we have water restrictions. Land is being sold to developers for timeshares,
condos, and hotels while we have an extreme housing shortage, an affordable housing
crisis.
We also do not have enough locals to fill the jobs in the tourism industry. Hotels and
tourism businesses have to often bring in outside workers to fill these jobs in these new
hotels. There's just not enough people on Maui. So what you're doing is you're
artificially inflating the local population with imports, which is not good for our
stainability, while many people who've been living on Maui have to move off island
because of the high cost of living. Maui's minimum living wage needs to be above $20
an hour for a young single person, more for a person with dependents. And many
hotels are just not paying that to their support staff workers. Okay, so this is an
incentive for them to get cheap workers if they have more beds to service.
Building more hotels creates competition against hotels. We have cheap flights, we
have cheap hotel rooms, they just cannot afford to pay. We need quality over quantity.
I myself had to pivot my business because of COVID and now again because
overtourism because we know quality is better than quantity, and we don't want to
destroy the resources, we don't want to kill the cash cow as Jordan Mocker said. When
a farmer has too many cows, he has to thin out the herd or they all starve.
Samasoni Tamasese, a local construction guy, he doesn't want more hotels on Maui,
but he does want continuous high paid work. Who doesn't? Construction is an
important industry, but it's not the only industry. Hotels take a year or two to build, but
we have to, the rest of us have to live with them for 50 to 100 years, okay? So that's
concludes my testimony. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, question.
If not. Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 91
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier as David Jorgensen. To be followed by Alex Matache.
MR. DAVID JORGENSEN, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Can't seem, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes we can hear you.
MR. JORGENSEN: I apologize, I, I’ve been having video trouble all day. I can't seem to get
my. can you see me?
CHAIR LEE: No, but-
MR. JORGENSEN: Okay, I'm sorry, I'll move ahead,  Iknow you guys are slammed for time.
Aloha, Happy New Year, and shuprobhat. Chair Lee, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez
and Members of the Maui County Council. My name is Dave Jorgensen, I'm an
attorney in Wailuku. I'm a registered lobbyist and I'm testifying on behalf of the
American Resort Development Association of Hawaii, or ARDA Hawaii in strong
support of Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill 148.
The stated purpose of the bill is to establish a moratorium to comply with visitor to
resident ratio, as specified in Chapter 2.80.B of the Maui Island Plan by pausing the
increase of transient accommodations. However, there's no data to suggest that
stopping the development of transient accommodations will decrease the number of
visitors to Maui, and we believe it will not. Visitors will still come to Maui and seek other
accommodations, even if the supply of lodging units is limited. Visitors will seek lodging
in residential neighborhoods and long-term rental apartments and lead to an increase
in illegal short-term rentals. If the goal is to decrease the visitor count, more effective
regulation of legal and especially illegal short-term rental vacation units should be
pursued.
On the other hand, the moratorium will have a substantial economic impact on Maui's
economy, risking the substantial amounts of investments, tax revenues, and job
creation, for Maui's economy created by the tourist industry. For example, the
timeshare industry is currently a major contributor to Maui's economy by providing more
than $73 million per year in State and local taxes and supplying much needed jobs.
We should be mindful that the timeshare industry can be, can be a part of the solution.
The proposed moratorium seeks to maintain the status quo while we wait for the TIG
to study and present recommendations to the Council on how to address the tourist.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 92
tourism industry's impact on the environment and resident's quality of life. However,
given the potential negative economic impacts, there's no reason why a moratorium
must be imposed now rather than waiting until the TIG completes its work.
In prior testimony I provided, we've addressed the legal problems with the proposed
moratorium and Mr. Meheuta from Oahu summarized those earlier in his testimony.
Those issues still need to be addressed.
ANONYMOUS: I could think of something, I know it.
MR. JORGENSEN: ARDA Hawaii strongly supports--
ANONYMOUS: I didn't seen that as, you know.
MR. JORGENSEN: I don't know what that is. ARDA Hawaii strongly supports Mayor
Victorino's veto of Bill 148, and we thank him for making the hard decision to take that
position. ARDA Hawaii echoes the Mayor's comments and respectfully requests that
the Council uphold the veto of Bill 148. Thank you very much for your consideration
and for your hard work on this difficult issue.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, any questions for Dave? If not, thank you very much.
MR. JORGENSEN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Alex Matache, followed by Sarah Hofstadter.
MR. ALEX MATACHE, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, everyone. Can you hear me? Aloha, everyone.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you.
MR. MATACHE: Hi, my name is Alex Matache, I'm a project estimator for one of the biggest
stone contractors in the State, in the State and  Ihave been a Hawaii resident for
six years. I will do my best to keep, to keep it brief. I'm here to testify in support of the
Mayor's veto. A big part of my job consists of new hotels and hotel renovations.
Without this, my colleagues, their families, and  Iwill be deeply affected along with,
along with all our suppliers and local businesses that we work with.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 93
As a conclusion, this moratorium will come with a real cost to the families who depend
on a paycheck from skilled construction jobs and industries. Today in the shadow of
COVID-19, many Maui residents are still struggling to recover and rebuild. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair and mahalo, Alex for your testimony. I just
have clarifying question, you're stationed out of Oahu.
MR. MATACHE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay, thank you.
MR. MATACHE: But most of our businesses, a big part of our business it's in Maui right now.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, thank you.
MR. MATACHE: Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions? If not, Member Kama, but before you start, there's a lot of
feedback, somebody has the microphone on. That shouldn't. Go ahead.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you, Chair. So, sir, so even though you are based on
Oahu, do all your employees come from Oahu or do they come from Maui?
MR. MATACHE: Well, most of our employees, when we have working now on Maui, we, we
hire them from Maui. We, we have the support of the local union, so most of our
workers are from Maui.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore questions.
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Sarah Hofstadter. To be followed by Robin Rayner.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 94
MS. SARAH HOFSTADTER, (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-6, 22-7, & 22-9):
Hi. hope you can hear me. I can't seem to get my camera to turn on.
CHAIR LEE: We definitely can hear you.
MS. HOFSTADTER: Okay great, I'm testifying as a private citizen and also on behalf of the
community group, Hale Hawaii, which I'm a steering team member of. And I'm
testifying first off on CC 22-6 and 22-7, which has to do with the ARPA funding. I'm
going to be very brief on that cause I have a lot to say on the Bill 148 veto.
But on the ARPA funding, I just want to encourage and plead with the Council to make
sure that the, the people of Maui have input into what the priorities are for how this
money is spent. This is a huge gift we've been given from the Federal government that
can enable us to alleviate a lot of the hardship that's been caused by the pandemic on
this island and, and is still being caused. We need support for people to get testing,
we need better masks, better ventilation, especially in our schools. We need support
for people who've been, whose housing or job has been impacted by the pandemic.
There's a lot of things we could be doing with that money. But if it's all decided behind
closed doors with people who we don't even know whether they have a conflict of
interest, that's not the way our tax dollars should be spent. So I just want to plead with
this Council to really take an active role in how this money gets allocated and to give
the public input into what the priorities are.
So let me move on to CC 22-9 which is the Bill 148 veto. A lot of the testimony that's
happened earlier in this very long hearing, and I do appreciate all of your patience is
the people talking as if we were trying to shut down the hotel industry. The hotel
industry can have, nothing in this ordinance would affect the ability of the hotel industry
to operate all of the rooms that it currently has. So all of the money that they spend
with local suppliers on food and amenities and, and local employment, none of that is
going to be reduced. We're just talking about how much it's going to increase.
People reference the Maui County plan, we already have more visitors than that plan
contemplates, and the hotels still have vacancies. So it's not like we've maxed out on
our, on the capacity of our existing rooms. Visitors will not come here if they don't have
a place to stay. And people have talked about oh well, if they can't get a hotel room,
they'll just rent STR's and, and invade our residential neighborhoods. We have other
ways of dealing with keeping visitor accommodations out of our residential
neighborhoods. And I know this Council is aware of that and is working on that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 95
We need to deal with the Minatoya list, and we need to deal with the illegal short-term
rentals. And if the hotels are really serious about helping with that problem, I'm all for
it. Let them put some money into what it's going to take to track down and shut down
all of the illegal short-term rentals. And for the ones that are illegal, we do not have to
grant anymore permits. This Council can send a clear directive to the Planning
Commission that if a, if a STR or B&B rental permit is applied for that the presumption
should be for denial.
So I, I think that that's really disingenuous to say that even though our hotels currently
have vacancies, we need to have more. As for the construction industry I understand
that though, that they rely on those jobs, but as I, one of the Councilmembers was
suggesting earlier where do we stop. Does that mean we're obvious, we're obligated
to keep building hotels as you know, long into the future, forever so that our
construction industry has jobs. How about them bidding on some other jobs, building
affordable housing, fixing our water infrastructure, fixing our wastewater infrastructure.
There's a lot of other things that those construction companies could be doing.
So merely saying that we're going to put a pause on new visitor accommodations for
two years with projects that are already in the pipeline are going to be able to continue,
so it really, it doesn't mean what they're saying, like that jobs are going to disappear
overnight. So 1, I, I also think that the concerns about the due process and the legality
of the resolution are unfounded and if your County Council is telling you there are
constitutional problems, 1 would suggest you get an outside legal opinion on that
because I-
CHAIR LEE: Sorry, could you please conclude your testimony? Please conclude.
MS. HOFSTADTER: I think this, this ordinance is perfectly valid, it was properly passed, and
we absolutely need it. Mahalo for your time.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is David DiAntonis. To be followed by Blossom Feiteira.
MR. DAVID DIANTONIS. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Hi, everybody, thanks for letting me talk for a minute here. Project manager for a large
subcontractor, we do the flooring installation, and we have a lot of large projects on
Maui at the time and we've done a lot over the last 12 years. You know, I know this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 96
isn't a debate forum, but I did just hear the last individual speak and you know the, the
biggest thing I'm taking from this is the grave danger of a planned two-year pause.
Right when I heard two year pause it made me think of a, of a quote from Milton
Friedman who said there's nothing more permanent than a government bill. So I, I
think my fear, or anybody's fear would be that this gets extended beyond two years
and it just keeps going, and where does it stop?
And you know, another thing that keeps getting talked about is if not hotels, why can't
we do affordable housing? Why can't we do hospitals? I think if everybody took a step
back and try to not get involved in the process, you would see the free market and the
free market is going to dictate what should be there and what shouldn't be there. If the
hotel is needed, the hotel is going to be built. There's private capital that's going to go
there because it's needed. If affordable housing is needed, it's going to go. it's going
to be there.
So you know 1 think there's a lot of unintended consequences that would come from
Bill 148 and you know you have good intentions of limiting tourism possibly, but I think
you would have a significant spike in the illegal rentals and, and the things that
everybody has the concerns about in, in that regard if there's not the hotel presence
there. And the two-year pause, what happens after the two years? ! think it would just
get backlogged and then you'd have a floodgate opened up. So instead of controlling
it over the next two years, it might even get worse. So its unintended consequences
is what! was thinking with too much government interaction there. And that's it, thank
you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions.
If not, Madam Clerk. Thank you very much.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Blossom Feiteira. To be followed by Wayne Hedani.
MS. BLOSSOM FEITEIRA, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-4):
Good afternoon. Madam Chair, Members of the County Council. Happy New Year.
First of all, I want to thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on two of your
items and that would be County Communication [sic] 22-4 and County Communication
22-9. For the record my name is Blossom Feiteira, and I've been a community
advocate for native rights and affordable housing for over 30 years. I am not here as
a lobbyist, but just as a community individual.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 97
So regarding County Communication [sic] 22-4, the only way the County of Maui can
ensure adequate water resources are available for the residents and for the affordable
housing efforts is that the County of Maui must have control and authority over this
public trust resource. The ability of the County to be able to secure this resource on
behalf of its residents is crucial, given the very ambitious goal of your affordable
housing plan as well as meeting the fiduciary obligation under the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act. And so I appreciate the fact that the County is contemplating filing a
request to establish an intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Land and
Natural Resources for the East Maui Irrigation water.
For regarding County Communication 22-9 and I am going to share Madam Chair that
1 kind of cheated and signed up for this item after 1 signed up for testimony. And the
only reason why I did that is because I began to hear comments about providing high
paying jobs, it'll benefit the community, it'll keep our families whole and keep them at
home. I am 63 years old. I was born and raised on Maui, actually born and raised in
Lahaina and back then when the tourist industry was just getting ... under it, we heard
the exact same thing. And so our community supported the idea of establishing resort,
resort destination opportunities in West and South Maui. Forty years later I'm hearing
the exact same thing. And obviously we have seen the result of what the resort, resort
industry has done to our community.
The high paying jobs that they're talking about, did you know that those that are in the
construction industry cannot afford to buy what they are building? I don't call that high
paying jobs. Second of all is that we continue to witness a outmigration of local families
to the mainland, looking for some economic relief. Understanding that they don't want
to leave home, but they have to because they have no choice. That was happening
30 years ago and it's still happening now. Back in the day, it was a ... that was leaving,
now we've got intergenerational families leaving Hawaii.
And then finally when we talk about the benefits to like economy, I'm not exactly sure
what that benefit is because clearly the County is not able to generate sufficient
revenue to meet the day-to-day needs of our communities. We need to maintain our
parks. We need to maintain our roads. We are short staffed in, in public safety. How
is the economy of Maui County benefiting from all of this development? And I just want
to remind you that during the pandemic, one of the few industries that stayed open and
continued to function was the construction industry because they were deemed to be
essential to the economy. Okay, so they were very busy during the pandemic, nobody
in the construction industry got laid off. Businesses that were supporting them
continued to prosper, and this is through the pandemic. And so I question the
statements that are being made by the supporters.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 98
And so I would ask you Council to continue your support to override the Mayor's veto.
You have established a temporary investigative group to be able to take a serious look
at how this is going to have an impact on our community. 1 would ask you to do that,
allow the TIG to do its work so that the County Council can do your work. And at the
end of the day, the County Council has the authority to amend or repeal any ordinance
that you pass. You have that authority and I believe that all of you have the best interest
of our community and our island home and our County when reviewing this and
overriding the Governor's veto, the Mayor's veto. And so thank you very much for your
time. I appreciate it. Madam Chair, 1, I know there's a lot more people behind me, so
thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, thank you very much Blossom Any questions, Members.
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Wayne Hedani, followed by Robin Rayner.
MR. WAYNE HEDANI. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Chairman Lee and Members of the County Council. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes we can.
MR. HEDANI: Okay, my video is having problems, so I'm sorry that I can't come through on
video. My name is Wayne N. Hedani and I'm speaking as President of Kaanapali
Operations Association Inc. or KOA for short. KOA represents businesses which
contribute over $150 million annually to government coffers. We oppose Bill 148,
Draft 1, for the following 17 reasons:
1) It does not accomplish its stated purpose; 2) It injures many businesses and their
employees; 3) It's an overreaction to a temporary condition; 4) It represents poor
planning for the future; 5) It damages more than it protects; 6) It discourages
investment in and redevelopment of hotel properties; 7) It responds to a problem which
no longer exists; 8) It punishes the visitor industry for the Council's own actions which
caused overtourism; 9) It uses a meat cleaver where a scaffold is needed; 10) It is done
without proper public input as a backroom deal; 11) It misrepresents the intent of the
Maui Island Plan which is now 10 years old; 12) It exacerbates the problem of
overtourism rather than solves it; 13) It punishes the public for the Council's own
actions and inactions; 14) It causes more problems than it solves; 15) It's drafted by
people with little or no experience in running their own businesses; 16) It's the wrong
solution to the wrong problem for the wrong reasons; 17) It is improperly titled.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 99
I have explanations of all of these items for those that would care to ask me about
those questions. And I stand ready to answer any questions you have. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Members.
Pro Tern Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I would like to hear the reasons, but I know that we probably
don't have time to do that right now. So if Mr. Hedani could just write it and send it to
the committee, 1 would certainly appreciate that.
MR. HEDANI: Yes, I will email it to the Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you very much, sir.
MR. HEDANI: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, thank you.
Madam Clerk, and, and let us know how many more.
COUNTY CLERK; We have approximately 28 still signed up to testify.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, cause I'm looking at maybe 3:15 or 3:30 is the next, the next recess?
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Our next testifier is Robin Rayner. To be followed by Dr. Robert
Smith.
MS. ROBIN RAYNER. [testifying on Bill Nos. 153 (2021) and 154 (2021)1:
Yes, hello can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. RAYNER; Just checking, oh great. Good I'm, I'm, I'm too afraid to use my, my video I've
been cut out of this meeting twice already, so I apologize for not being with you
personally. Anyway, aloha Madam Chair and Members of the Maui County Council
and thank you for the opportunity to speak. 1 know you have a lot on your agenda.
Hopefully this will be a lightweight, comment for you. My name is Robin Rayner and
I'm a board member for Ke Ao Haii'i, and I'd like to testify in support of Bill 153 and 154.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 100
When we started this project nearly four years ago, we were looking to protect
150 acres of precious coastal lands in Hana, Maui worth over $10 million. We knew
as a unknown nonprofit no one was going to give us $10 million. But we thought if we
did, we thought, but we were determined to protect this aina and thought if we broke
this landmass into more manageable parcels with values closer to the funding sources
available to us, perhaps we might just over time be able to acquire these lands and
place them in conservation for our community. And that's exactly what we did.
We knew our two funding sources could support around $4 million or less, and so
essentially, we broke the 150 acres into three purchasable groups each valued at
$4 million. I've submitted our spreadsheet and a map showing the breakdown of these
lands into these parcel groups. To date we've acquired two of the three parcel groups
and we are very close to raising funds for the final parcel.
We're excited to visit, I was excited when I visited the Maka'alae lands shortly after Ke
Ao Hali'i completed this purchase. I sat on the aina, my legs stretched out in front of
me and my hands spread left and right, palms on the ground ... looking out across the
great Pacific where the ocean swell travel thousands of miles to reach the rugged rocky
windward coast and look and fix your delight in watching the dancing crashing waves.
I then glanced over my shoulder to the serene lush green pasture behind me in
Haleakala. As i sat there, I was overwhelmed by the realization that we have not just
won another battle to keep these lands from being developed, but we've actually
secured the lands from this fate forever, in perpetuity for potentially hundreds of years
these lands will be more or less . . . open space land with no development.
I don't think this has really sunk into our community, what's happened here? I don't
even think our board has quite understood it. but it's a really massive thing that we've
been able to do, and we could not have done it without the support of our partners and
communities, especially our funders like you, the County Council, Maui County Council,
so mahalo nui loa for your efforts in supporting this, we're so grateful to you.
But we're not quite done yet. There's still one group of parcels remaining that are just
slightly short of the funding necessary to complete and secure this entire area. So I
hope you support Bill 153 and 154 so we can complete this project, secure the entire
150-acre, acres area. Mahalo for your time and I'm available for any questions if
anyone has any.
And if I can take off my Ke Ao Hali'i hat for a second, I'd like to just mention that totally
support Resolution 22-3 please extend the deadline for affordable housing for the Hana
project, we desperately need that. So thank you again for your time. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 101
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair our last testifier before the afternoon break is Dr. Robert Smith.
DR. ROBERT SMITH, (testifying on Resolution No. 22-6):
Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
DR. SMITH: Aloha, Councilmembers. I am Robert Smith at Kihei and I represent myself. I'm
testifying on the Resolution 22-6 in support of this item going to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee first instead of going straight to the Planning
Commissions. And that way the Councilmembers have  achance to look it over and
discuss it in Committee beforehand and they can make any changes or
recommendations before it goes to the Planning Commission. I think that will help the
process. Thank you for your time.
CHAIR LEE; Alright, any questions Members? Thank you, Mr. Smith. Members, are you
ready for your break? Uh to 3:15 to 3:25, okay. Meeting is in recess.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 3:13 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 3:29 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the County Council regular meeting of January 7, 2022 please reconvene?
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair our next testifier is Bill Kamai. To be followed by Debra Greene.
MR. BILL KAMAI, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Councilmembers.
CHAIR LEE; Aloha.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 102
MR. KAMAI: Can you, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
MR. KAMAI: Okay, alright, Happy New Year. My name is Bill Kamai, I am speaking as a
representative of the Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters. I'm speaking on County
Communication 22-9, Bill 148. But before I get into my testimony, a shout out to all of
you for your resolutions to this morning. Member Sugimura for recognizing Na Hoku
Hanohano award winners, awesome. Member Molina for recognizing Komoda's
Bakery, awesome. Next time, Mike, don't wait 105 years, okay?
I'm here to ask for your support of my New Year's resolution, and that is for you to
uphold Mayor Victorino's veto of moratorium Bill 148. I first heard the term unintended
consequences listening to this very body like the past 20 years. It's the unintended
consequences of a moratorium bill that is my concern. There's the business standpoint
that it would hurt a lot of locally owned businesses whose livelihood depends on the
visitor industry. Local farmers whose main clientele is hotels. Locally owned shops,
restaurants, stores and lunch wagons, the charter boats, the vans, bus ... all impacted
by COVID, and most are still trying to recover that we know of.
The problem is the moratorium bill, whose intent is to address trying to limit the number
of visitors to the island by putting a limit on new hotel rooms from being built doesn't
really address the issue of overtourism. The reason is the bill doesn't limit, nor can it
put a limit on the number of flights to the islands. The bill doesn't limit the number of
passengers on these flights to the islands. What the bill does unintendedly is put a
limit on where they can stay. And this is areas already designated for hotel and resorts.
That's where we want them to stay. Hotel districts provide limits by not allowing hotels
outside of the district. This is something that the Council, Planning Commission,
people of Maui, GPAC, have agreed upon through community plans and legislation.
So if you put a cap on the number of rooms in an area already designated hotel and
resort, then the question is where are they going to stay? They're going to go on
Trivago, Expedia, KAYAK, Travelocity, and look for a bed and breakfast and a short
term vacation rental. They're going to rent a house, cottage, apartment, condo. The
unintended consequence is where is this house, cottage, apartment or condo located?
1 can tell you where it's not. It's not in a resort or hotel zoned area. It's in our
neighborhoods. That's another unintended consequence of this moratorium bill. Every
house, cottage, apartment, condo being rented in this fashion is one less rental in our
inventory for local families or residents looking for any kind of.. . affordable home.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 103
Open a newspaper, look at the real estate market, it's crazy. So for the unintended
consequences I just mentioned, I'd like to ask you to make my New Year's resolution
come true by upholding the Mayor's veto of Bill 148. Mahalo, good luck with all your
New Year's resolutions and have a Happy New Year. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Bill.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Thank you. Bill.
CHAIR LEE: Members, Members, any questions? Okay, thanks a lot.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Debra Greene. To be followed by Joyclynn Costa.
MS. DEBRA GREENE, (testifying on Resolution No. 22-6):
Aloha, Chair Lee and Members of the Council. Can you hear me okay?
CHAIR LEE: Yes we can.
MS. GREENE: Alright, thank you. Happy New Year everyone.
CHAIR LEE: You too.
MS. GREENE: Thank you. It’s Debra Greene and I'm, I’m testifying on behalf of SAFETek
Hawaii. We are an all-volunteer grassroots community organization and I'm testifying
on Resolution 22-6. And we're asking that the proposed bill on wireless infrastructure
first go to the Planning and Sustainable Land Use Committee so that Councilmembers
can look it over and get it to a place where everybody agrees on it beforehand so that
everybody can be on the same page. And then it can go to the Planning Commissions.
So, thank you for your consideration. That’s it, short, sweet and to the point. Thanks
for all you do.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, perfect. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
MS. GREENE: Mahalo.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Joyclynn Costa, followed by Christopher McGee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 104
MS. JOYCLYNN COSTA, (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-6, 22-7. & 22-9 and
Resolution Nos. 22-4 & 22-51:
Good afternoon, Members. Good afternoon, Chair. My name is Joyclynn Costa, I'm
going to leave my video off cause I, it keeps buzzing from my end every so often. So
hopefully the audio comes through clearer. Is it, does it sound okay?
CHAIR LEE: You sound just fine.
MS. COSTA; Thank you. So I'll be testifying, well I'll do the fast ones like 22-5, I'm in support
of that removal of the fuel and the tanks. I think, you know, water... irreparable harm
to water, that's all 1 have to say. So I'm in support of, of 22-5.
22-6 and 7, as earlier testimony, where's the money, where's the transparency? 1 think
it's best to, to take a look at, at all the movements, all the delays, everything, and I
would, I would strongly suggest to set aside some money especially for the unsanitary
conditions of the homelessness. In my place of business every morning I get there, I
have to clean up after them. You're talking from food to, you know the masks, to their
clothing, to even human waste. And if you have to go to work every day and do
something like that, and we've got money set aside because we're in a pandemic and
we're essential workers and we have to do this. You know it, it just doesn't make any
sense.
I had an employee that had to sit in, in a line and he reported back to me and said oh
I was going to get tested but I'm in a line with 700 cars. I had someone else sitting in
a line for those test kits and they said I started at 4:00 in the afternoon, I got there
almost at 6. So it's like I'm not, I, I just cannot understand it. So we rely on you folks.
22-9, just as Mr. Hedani had, you know, lined up everything number one attracting
outside investors? What about investing in Maui? Quality of life, how's about life itself
instead of chasing that dollar bill. Industry is not cheap, material cost and everything.
Resources that you take is never going to be put back. Time and time again, not just
our culture, not just our water, but the pohaku gets crushed, the sand, the whole, the
whole central sand dune got wiped out. Can you put that back into over a million years
for that sand dune to protect Maui from global warming? Now what do we got? We
got a sandbar.
The previous testifier said, oh, you know one thing I gotta say is government when they
have a bill it keeps going and going and so how long is it going to be. Is two years
going to be enough or they going to continue? Well guess what? What do we hear?
Jobs, we need jobs, we need jobs, we need jobs. We will provide housing, yet we still
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 105
need housing. We have, we have water and yet we're in a water shortage. We're
fighting for the, the right to, to preserve our water.
Unintended consequences, how’s about intentional harm to our iwi, our culture, and
our resources. And that's only to name a few. I didn't have enough time and attorneys
to sit, sit down and list everything that can contradict that entire list.
My final testimony is on 22-4, on, and that would be for the East Maui water. My family
comes from Nahiku, Makapipi. It scares me that government has to get involved in our
water no matter who it is. I almost feel like and please don't take this wrong but it's like
I have a choice between a shotgun to my head or a BB gun in my eye. Either way, I
going get hurt. Either way.
When we have compromised for generations, I'm sure you already know, know this.
With that said, one of the factors for our demise, unfortunately with all due respect has
been governmental decisions. Not, not each of you personally, but the representation
of Maui and Its people. Council Rawlins, you know, clar, asked the Union Rep, how
much more, how much more before we going stop.
You know that Indian saying when you cut the last tree down, that's when you're going
to realize it. So when the last drop of water hits, then what? Then what? It. it scares
me, it scares me to have this Council take control, County, County of Maui take control,
or the State because all of you who have good intentions not going be there for 30
years. So once this government entity takes control of this water then it can run amok
with all their friends who wants to bring in all these investors. It's scary.
It, we, we need to put it back where it belongs in the, in the culture. We never took.
When I read this, it's about improving the ditches that's taking the water. I don't see it
growing water. I don't see enough about the kuleanas. I don't see it, it mentions the
rights of the Hawaiians and it's in number four of a clause, we suppose to be number
one. Not Hawaiian Homes Act. But under occupation, that's where we're put.
Somewhere in the mix. And we get buried. And then once we get buried, guess what,
the developer comes, digs up our bones and throws us on the side.
So please, if you have to go and make that. I'll take the BB gun for now and make
BLNR know that County of Maui cannot allow private entities to control our water. And
like attorney Lowenthal says, the water going be here for us, no they even was trying
to sell the water, right? They wanted to bottle water and ship it out. So, every
consideration can have unintended consequences. .  .. back to the ahupua'a system,
wholeheartedly. Take the hit and fix Maui. Mahalo.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 106
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Christopher McGee. To be followed by Matt Bachman.
CHAIR LEE: Christopher McGee. Okay, Madam Clerk, call the next one, please.
COUNTY CLERK: Matt, Matt Bachman. To be followed by the last four digits of the caller
calling in on 9385.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I see Mr. Bachman.
MR. MATT BACHMAN. HABITAT FOR HUMANITY, (testifying on Resolution No. 22-3):
Aloha, Council. My name is Matt Bachman and I am the Family Services Director for
Habitat for Humanity Maui, and I'm here to testify about 22, the Resolution 22-3
regarding the Hana project. In my, in my duty as  afamily services manager my single
duty is to contact and keep contact with everyone from, on, in Maui Nui from all of the
islands here in Maui and to look at them as future homeowners, current homeowners,
or previous homeowners. And they don't even have to be homeowners with us.
And so I'm the one that communicates with everyone who is interested in the Hana
project. And I have to tell you, there are quite  afew. We keep a list of what we call
future homeowners or up and coming homeowners. Everyone that calls and says, you
know, I'd like to be in one of the projects. We don't necessarily differentiate, but there
are quite a few people that have come, come and contacted us from Hana. And the
idea that perhaps it wouldn't go forward hurts me, not only me in the stomach, but it's,
it hurts quite a few people that haven't been able to be represented here today. And
so I come to you, kind of representing those people, our future homeowners.
One of the things that we also do is on about a quarterly basis we send out a newsletter
to all of those who have contacted us but haven't been able to join one of our projects.
And I could tell you for the last at least 18 months, every one of those newsletters has
a spotlight on the Hana project, and its spotlights kind of where we are, what's going
on, and probably most likely when the application process is going to open. And
because of the things that you heard from Sherri and from Gabe, there has been some,
there have been some delays and so we haven't been very good at telling everyone
when the application is going to start, but I can tell you that there is a very large appetite
for that application process.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 107
And so I’m here today to urge you to to pass the resolution to make sure that this project
stays greenlighted and, and really so that we can keep hope alive in Hana. I really
don't want our newsletter to say that the Hana project is not coming. And I appreciate
your time and I'm here for any questions. Thank you everyone.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, our next testifier Faith Chase. To be followed by Mike Baban.
MS. FAITH CHASE, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution Nos. 22-4
& 22-5):
Good afternoon. Chair. Good afternoon, Council. First of all, thank you for, I am in
favor of this statement of the removal of the fuel in the Red Hill tanks. I think this is
particularly important for Maui County to make a statement. I'm not sure if you're
aware, but we had a longtime Maui resident that actually was the engineer of those
such tanks. So he has since passed, but it is our duty to make a strong statement like
this.
As far as the East Maui water, I think it's at 22-4 you know the water, the delivery
system, the surrounding lands, I said this before in smaller committees and at the
Board of Water Supply, it belongs to you already. So I think, I predict, mark my words
that as things unfold into the future, that clarity is going to be there. I don't think it has
to be some strong language like what is that word you guys use, condemnation or
whatever that is when you you take the public, the lands because of public need. I
don't know if it even has to go to that extent. It is literally going to be handed to you all
on a silver platter because the State is not in control of it.
We are relying on our Counties to step up to support the people cause the State is just
a continuance of the insurgency of the, the, of, of the occupiers that you know, took
over, that you know when Queen Liliuokalani yielded the country of Hawaii to, this is
just a continuance of it. And thank goodness we have smaller Counties that are here
to support the people.
And I know this is hard and I know you might not be able to dig your teeth into this right
now. I'm glad all the conversations are brisk and continuing and they are fruitful. I
suggest that the GREAT Committee consider clarifying the law that talks about this by
maybe inviting the occupied forces Hawaii Army to make a presentation because clarity
every day is, more and more clarity every day is happening. So you're doing fine. You
know it's good that we're at this intersection where actually everybody, we're just doing
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 108
our best. Everybody kind of doesn't know where they are and these people are, you
know these interests, these so-called purveyors are scrambling. But it is up to you
guys to protect that water for us. And I heard the conversations I, I heard some of the
pushback the other day about, you know, serving the greater population and all of that,
but there's a balance there.
And I think it also is in tandem with the last thing that I'm going to speak to, and I'm in
favor of the moratorium. I mean, I, I'm, I'm sorry that all these lobbyists you know, they
feel like their jobs are insecure. But also. I've gone to labor union meetings and I've
seen them at the Democratic Party caucuses and the meetings and honestly, none of
those labor unions have a sector or committee that starts to look out of the box and
looks beyond what they've already been doing. They need to be more creative at their
own home, at their own meetings, at their own unions, and start thinking how can we
support this big ag sort of push that we're looking to? How can we look for other work
that supports what we actually need? So it's on them, back on them to do that. So I'm
in favor of this.
And I might remind you, while I really appreciate this body more than I ever have since
the early 90s following the County Council, one of the first meetings you all had when
I was nervous about some contentious issues, I said if I thought that anything went
wrong, I was going to pitch a tent in the County yard. Well, now you guys are not at
the County all at the County Building.
I represent your homeless candidate on the healing solutions for homelessness. I was
offered support for four months. There's a perhaps, there's perhaps an opportunity for
two more months. But I'm not kidding, if I can't find a place to live, I already told you
and warned you I'll pitch a tent out in the yard, and you go figure this out. We can fill
those hotels with people who need, who need rentals, and we can fill those hotels with
people who are going to like invest and build up our agricultural foundation. We do not
need any more, what do they call it lodging, secure lodging accommodations.
Ridiculous, I'm sorry you had to muscle through all this. I know I'm a Jabberwocky, I'm
going to stop now. You've heard my testimony. I'll provide written testimony. Thank
you and happy birthday to your wife, Mike Molina.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Faith. Any questions? If not, thank you again.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Mike Baban, followed by David Coidea.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 109
MR. MIKE BABAN. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. My name is Mike Baban. I am the owner of A American
Custom Flooring. I'm here to testify against this Bill 148, 22-9. After an extremely
difficult years of shutdown and layoff, I believe it's time to move on for hotel renovation
and new construction. This is a revenue that is desperately needed to both the State
and Maui family. This is directly negatively impact, and our company workers and their
families. I would like to express my frustration with this moratorium, and I oppose the
bill. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Any questions, Members? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is David Coidea, followed by Kaniloa Kamaunu.
MR. DAVID COLDEA. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Good afternoon, Chairman and Councilmembers. My name is David Coidea and I work
for a flooring contractor based on Oahu and we operate in Maui. I'm here today to
respectfully testify against Bill 148, CC 22-09.  Iwas hired as a project manager strictly
for Maui hotel renovations and developments. After a couple years of COVID, difficult
years of COVID-19 for me and for my family, along with many more, I find it very
important as human beings to work together, to come together and work together,
create more jobs not only from the community, but also for future generation, future
generations to come.
If this moratorium is overruled, the additional revenue would be beneficial for the
County, community, and ... I'd also like to make  acomment addressing this comment,
what she said that all construction jobs were open during COVID. That necessary
wasn't true, I personal people who couldn't complete developments who took out
construction loans . . . personally guarantee the construction loans and they couldn't
complete it due to COVID-19, was therefore left the job jobless. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Questions, Members. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk, please proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Kaniloa Kamaunu, followed by Bianca.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 110
CHAIR LEE: Aloha.
MR. KANILOA KAMAUNU, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
Nos. 22-4 & 22-5):
Aloha mai kakou, Kaniloa Kamaunu. Hauoli makahiki hou to everyone from Waihee.
And, you know, so I’d like to start off with the 22-9 ,l guess Bill 148. Uh, you know, I've
been advocating for iwi kupuna for over 13 years, and one of the main areas that have
actually decimated a lot of the iwi kupuna have been on the shoreline due to the
development of hotels. These massive buildings that actually . . . materials that they
use, such as the cement have our iwi kupuna . . . they were crushed and they were
turned into cement. And that’s what they used to build their buildings. And so, today,
you know, it’s still the same.
Grand Wailea is notorious for the digging up of our iwi. And they want to expand to be
able to do more, do more. And you know, sorry boohoo to the construction workers,
but they was the, really the only ones that was benefiting during the pandemic. They
talk about having hotel jobs. I worked for seven, almost 15 years as a musician for
Kaanapali Beach Hotel. They had no problems in shutting me down and me not
working for a year and a half. I just started going back to play music.
So sorry you guys been working throughout, and the Mayor allowed them to do that
and one of the projects that they went and did was Waiko. Not supposed to have, we
warned them that they was going find iwi kupuna when we walked that grounds. Did
they listen? Not even, not even archaeology company. We told them they going find
urn and they found urn. They went from nothing to what almost 13 they found in that
little area. The area above that they when run into two more because construction was
allowed to continue. And we were stopped because of the pandemic. We couldn't go
and advocate for our kupuna.
So boohoo that 148 going stop them, going put a moratorium on building on my kupuna.
So sorry. You guys going have to suck it up. I did for a year and a half not working.
Nobody was caring about me. You know about not working in the industry. You no
work in the industry, they're not, they're not connected to tourism.
And by the way, if you guys go back and look at the 2000 report about tourism, we not
making any money off of tourism. We making the same amount of money as as in
1988. We have 15 more million people in 2017 when that article came out and we
never move anything. We never gain anything on that. In fact, our infrastructure took
a beating. So please educate you guys' selves of what's happening. Because that's
the reality, we not making money, so you're going allow Grand Wailea put a 100
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 111
another 150 more rooms to people that only going damage our resources, and it's not
their fault cause they not maa . . .
I wanted to, so is that for all of them? Cause I still had couple more I wanted to do.
Am I incorrect? Can I start testifying on the other two?
COUNTY CLERK: That was the countdown for just the first item.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Chair, you're muted.
MR. KAMAUNU: Oh, okay
CHAIR LEE: Oh, no wonder.
MR. KAMAUNU: Okay, kala mai. Yeah, sorry, I kind of getting heated. Sorry, I apologize. I
know it's not your fault. As to 22-5, what can you say? That's just, that’s just automatic,
gotta support, that's ridiculous, you know, you're talking about human lives that, you
know, that can be damaged forever, ever. You know we already get one virus that's
doing that. We don't need contamination too. But for people because of water
contamination, so support, agree this is a correct position to take on 22-5.
And for my last and final 22-4, it's another pet peeve of mine. I am an advocate of
kanaka rights. I have been doing that since 2007.  Ihave come forward to this body,
and Mr. Molina as well as Mr. Victorino and some of the others know my fight against
water. As I, was said earlier by Joyclynn, has, the question to be asked, has, has the
County done any better then the BLNR or the, or the Department of Land and Natural
Resources. I say nay.
This year alone, when that shortage of water was put on, I went driving around town
on purposely driving through different parts of our, of our pai aina or I should say
mokupuni. And I would see water wasted every single day, from South Kihei to
Upcountry, East side, to this side in Central, to West. I see, we have this shortage of
water, but all the hotels still using, in fact in Wailuku, in that Maui Lani, for Maui Lani,
they had water for almost two years that they never know was leaking. Kaahumanu,
every evening watering their grass. So the question is, are you guys good stewards,
not particularly you, but has the County of Maui been good stewards? No, aole.
We see damages to our resources and why, because we invest in western thinking
and western society. Our system worked for years. Why, because the number one
thing was to never damage the resource. The USGA in the early 2000's, came up and
forewarned, forewarned the State, especially on Maui that the, that the lens was about
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 112
to burst. And once that lens bursts, you cannot recover, that's gone, we dead, this
island is done.
But the number one thing you guys not dealing with, which is what pisses me off, is
that I’m kanaka maoli, kuleana, I seven generation in my area. I fight for that water, I
fight against Chumbley and everybody that comes in there. Because that's my rights,
and yet you guys do not defend me in any of the legislation that you put on. You do
not recognize me.
But yet in CWRM when I went to fight and stand alone, while, while Na Wai Eha was
going after other stuff, I stood up there for kuleana rights. I stood in every single
meeting. CWRM said you right, Mr. Kamaunu, your rights is superior. That's in the
minutes. And that's in several of those meetings, and yet we getting treated like we
have nothing. You are obligated to protect my rights. According to the State, when
you, according to when . . . took over in 1893, it was said that we wasn't responsible,
that we couldn't take care of ourselves. Weil, the just obligation is to us by you to us.
You guys have that responsibility . . . Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Muted, Chair. Chair, you're muted.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Any questions. Members.
If not. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Next testifier is Bianca Isaki. To be followed by Sara Tekula.
MS. BIANCA ISAKI, (testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Councilmembers. I am Bianca Isaki and I'm testifying in my personal capacity
in favor of CC 22-9, overriding the veto of your Bill 148. I am also representing three
kanaka maoli intervenor groups in a contested case against Grand Wailea Resort
before the Maui Planning Commission, Ho'oponopono  OMakena, Malama Kakanilua,
and Pele Defense Fund. These groups have spent years and their own personal funds
to address many of the same overtourism impacts that your bill addresses.
It's terrible to burden regular community people with protecting Maui when the
government has tools like your Bill 148 to do that job. In regard to the idea that a
moratorium violates the hotels due process rights, you get due process when you have
a property right issue. There's no property right in expecting you'll get a building permit.
There's no property right in expecting laws to never change, otherwise you'd never be
able to pass laws.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 113
Quoting the U.S. Supreme Court "Land-use regulations are ubiquitous and most of
them impact property values in some tangential way-often in completely unanticipated
ways. Treating them all as per se takings would transform government regulation into
a luxury few governments could afford." That was Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council
in 2002, which is also about a moratorium on development.
And all I want to say there is a lot... is a taking only in the extraordinary circumstance
and no productive or economically beneficial use of land is permitted, which is not
what's happening here. To the point that Maui has less hotel units and more STR's,
economic Professor Dick Mayer also pointed out that Maui's resorts are not locally
owned, they are owned by foreign corporations and hedge funds. So the actual
economic impacts cannot be assumed to stay in Maui.
Also, this Council restricted hotel construction before in 1991 when you passed
Ordinance 1997 to impose interim restrictions on hotel development and the sky did
not fall on tourism. Pressing pause on issuing more permits for hotel units ending
further investigation is a necessary precaution and makes more sense than building
more hotels and just assuming the investigative group will come up with a solution to
address the impacts of expanding tourism later. That is putting the cart before the
horse and poor planning. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Members, questions. If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next, our next test fire is Sara Tekula. To be followed by Dick Mayer.
MS. SARA TEKULA, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, everyone, good afternoon. My name is Sara Tekula and I'm testifying as an
18-year Makawao resident who works for a nonprofit organization located on Maui's
rural Northshore. I'm here to speak to the visitor accommodations moratorium, hoping
to encourage the County Council to keep the community's voice in mind, and allow
Bill 148 to become law despite the Mayor's veto.
So many thoughtful Maui residents have testified in favor of the moratorium. Some of
us four or five times now, and at this point, when so much is at stake in our, in our
island community, I ask you to please see this through. Please move forward with the
will of the people and put this two-year moratorium in place.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 114
Yes, we may need the income and the opportunity that tourism provides, but we don’t
need overtourism. We don't need to green light the uncontrolled growth of tourism at
a time when so many issues are becoming emergencies on our island. We're facing
increasing climate related issues, habitat and species loss, reef destruction, shipping
problems, the excessive burning of fossil fuels, affordable housing issues, and ail of
these are directly related to, if not caused by tourism.
This is not only about stopping a few new hotels from being built. This is about making
sensible, sustainable next steps for our island as a whole. Every additional tourist
present on this island brings with them a host of impacts. By taking a pause with the
moratorium we have an opportunity to turn the canoe in a direction that ensures that
our island will shine as a clean, ecologically, and socially healthy island community
when it welcomes visitors.
Imagine what we could teach the world about how islands can thrive. Please consider
this a positive solution to an out of control problem. Please see this as an opportunity
to do the right thing, what your constituents want to see you do. I feel for you ail really,
I do because I understand the pressure some of you might feel right now because you
feel the weight of the Mayor's veto on your shoulders.
Let's look at his reasoning for this veto for a moment. According to the Mayor "we need
to keep building visitor accommodations to stop illegal vacation rentals". That doesn't
make sense. I just don't understand how this argument can be strong enough to veto
the majority voices of this Council, especially when the Mayor's own Planning
Department says the vacation rental problem is under control. The Mayor is ultimately
responsible for enforcing the law. Is he saying that he's not going to do his job unless
we allow more hotels to be built?
For those who have been listening to testimony. Mayor is borrowing a talking point that
has been parroted by the leadership from hotels, developers, and others representing
the visitor industry. This is not what the people of his community are saying. We are
saying we need to pause this kind of growth before it's too late. So many people have
testified saying that a two-year moratorium would threaten their jobs and livelihoods
working in and renovating hotels. I'm really sorry that their employers have made them
feel unsafe and threatened by this.
. . . recognizes that these jobs are not going to be impacted, existing hotels will still
operate as is, and they can still renovate their existing spaces. They can still provide
jobs. This moratorium prevents new spaces from being built for just two years. What
this does is put a pause on new jobs that don't yet exist during a time when we can't
hire enough people to keep restaurants and hotels running.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 115
CHAIR LEE: Could you please conclude your testimony.
MS. TEKULA: It seems to be the least of our problems right now. I'll just end there. Thank
you very much.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions?
MS. TEKULA; Aloha, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. I think, am I on mute again? Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Dick Mayer. To be followed by Cara Flores.
CHAIR LEE: I have a loose cat in my.
MR. DICK MAYER, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution No. 22-4):
Good afternoon, Councilmembers. Can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE; Yes, hi, Dick.
MR. MAYER; Got to turn off my television. Two items I'd like to talk about, one is the
moratorium and the second is the resolution on the East Maui water. With regards to
the moratorium, the veto that the Mayor sent down to you has three really trivial
rationales behind it, and I think that it shows his, the lack of, of depth of the Mayor in
this case, that he was not able to come up with some really substantive arguments for
vetoing this message.
He talked about unintended consequences, and in fact, if his own departments are
unable to regulate vacation rentals, legal or illegal, that's on him, not something the
Council necessarily to be concerned about. And I think you should be, put pressure
on the Mayor, get your act together and do this, get the moratorium to work, so that the
neighborhoods are not impacted in a negative manner. And it shouldn't be happening
as Michele McLean has said there are very few illegal vacation rentals. Most of the
vacation rentals as we know are in condominiums and they're legal by prior legal
opinion and they're not illegal, and those won't be impacted, and I suspect they’ll be
very few additional ones generated.
The second thing is conversion of, of, the other thing that he talks about, provisions
that were added at the last minute by the Council. There was an addition put in there,
but it was merely a word changing to clarify a few words. It was not a substantive
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 116
change, it's the sort of thing that you very often do after you pass an ordinance, you
tell the Corp. Counsel, make sure that the exact wording is correct so it's very clear.
And that's something that you very often do, and that's exactly what you did do in your,
in your manner, when you go from first reading to second reading, you should in fact
make sure that all the wording is clear to everybody, and that's exactly what you did.
That was not a substantive change, it did not need a public hearing on that kind of an
item.
With regard to the overall message that you are sending to. to have a moratorium and
many people have testified today on this, it does not affect any existing hotel, vacation
rental at all. It merely says we don't want any more of them. That's what the
moratorium would impact. And I think that's what's clear. People are crying oh, it's
going to hurt my hotel, it's going to hurt my business. In fact it will not hurt a single
hotel, because in fact if anything it will strengthen them. If they have less competition
from new ones coming in, what you're really doing is helping existing hotel industry and
vacation rentals and timeshares and condos and other businesses on the island. I
think that's really important to keep in mind.
Not only that, you're also providing, I think a basis for Maui to maintain itself with a
reputation of having a super quality tourist destination area. One of the things that
we're concerned about is if it keeps growing, as has often been said, we spoil the
product that we're trying to market to the world. The experience will go down and the
costs, the prices that we'll be able to charge visitors will . . . We need to maintain the
quality that we have.
And let me switch now to the other item, and that's the water, water resolution. I
strongly support the concept that you're working on and that is that the County take
over the East Maui system. Potentially, you could also incorporate eventually, if it
works out the West Maui, Na Wai Eha system as well, that's something that's not on
the table today, but eventually it may allow the County to really control this water future
with the proper authority.
Now the DLNR representative Mr. Hirokawa came over here and said, you know if the
County is interested, please get in touch with me, in touch with us. And that's by adding
his name to the resolution that would be a first step. Then I think you need to put
pressure on the Mayor and the Water Department to begin talking with DLNR about
what can be done to assure that this water is made available.
Somebody has said that this will be very costly for the County to do. in fact, it may
even be a revenue source. A lot will depend on what the State will charge the County
to take water from the watershed. If they give the low rates, or relatively low rates that
presently exists, the County will then have that water available to sell to Mahl Pono.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 117
Right now Mahi Pono does not pay extra for that water, just the fee that goes to State.
You might be able to sell it for 30, 40, 50 cents per thousand gallons. You may also
be able to then have the water supply available for Hawaiian Home Lands at a
reasonable rate, and to the farmers Upcountry at  areasonable rate. Lower, right now
they're paying over a dollar for that 1000 gallons. You may be able to get that rate
down, so having the water authority would have many benefits.
The key will be, who will be on the water authority? Who will be running it? And as
you go through negotiations with the State, and you do it, I would urge you to get a
draft of what a water authority would look like. There are many communities around
the country that have such an entity and put in the right wording so you have the right
people administering it so that the general public, the watershed, the East Maui taro
farmers, the Upcountry farmers, the Hawaiian Home Lands, all of them will be, all the
stakeholders will receive the benefits of having the County administer it rather than
somebody in Montreal, Canada administering this system. And who knows what will
happen, what, whether they'll maintain it well, what controls there will be. This will put
it in the hands of people here on Maui to do the best for the people of Maui. Hope that
you'll endorse this resolution. If you're not committed, this is not a contract that you're
signing, it's a first step in seeing if this is a viable option for the County. I thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions.
MR. MAYER: And, and want to wish you a Happy New Year.
CHAIR LEE: And, and you as well. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much
Dick. Aloha.
MR. MAYER: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Cara Flores. To be followed by Maria Gardner.
MS. CARA FLORES, (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-6, 22-7, 22-9 & 22-10
and Resolution No. 22-5):
Aloha, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 118
MS. FLORES: Thank you, I'm not going to testify very long on Resolution 22-5, but I do
support it.
On the resolution or on the CC 22-6 and 7, I just wanted to speak to the fact that our
Executive branch has been extremely inefficient with our pandemic funds, and we are
again at a point of crisis in this pandemic. We have a major testing crisis. I personally
had to wait a week out to get a test. Kaiser doesn't have any available. The State kind
of dropped the ball, I know the County tried to pick it up. But we have a major testing
shortage which is happening nationwide, and residents need testing in order to isolate
and also contact trace, let other people know they're exposed.
Also, the State got rid of isolation facilities and put that onto the County and so we need
to be putting money into providing isolation facilities for multigenerational families who
want to isolate, or homeless, or people being let out of jail, or other people who need
isolation and cannot find it within their own resources. We also need high quality mask
available for people who cannot afford it to allow them to take that personal
responsibility and protect themselves cause a lot of people don't have the money or
access to that. We could spend money on ventilation in public spaces with high
occupancy that's indoor, and that would help reduce the spread of this virus in our
community.
On CC 22-9 and 10, I just wanted to speak to, 1 still stand fully behind my testimony at
the Planning Committee. I do think you need to override the veto. There's just a lot of
corporate interests and lobbyists putting their money behind this idea that we need
more hotels, but doesn't stand in, it, it doesn't go along with the Maui County plan, it
doesn't stand in unison with what the people want.
And during the Planning meeting, I actually posted a poll on one of our Facebook
groups that's just for Maui residents, and of the people I asked the exact question was
should more hotels be built on Maui, people kept voting after that meeting ended. It
ended up being 438 no votes and five yes votes. So of that group, the majority, the
vast majority of residents don't want to see more hotels. I think most residents feel that
overtourism is becoming a huge problem.
I also wanted to point out that just because people aren't here testifying in person and
giving six hours of their day to wait their turn doesn't mean they don't feel ... A lot of
people are working to pay their bills right now, but we still need to recognize the overall
feelings of the community that most people feel like overtourism is a problem. There's
a reason we have a Maui County plan and we should follow it to honor the residents
who live here.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 119
We also don't have the infrastructure which is a large part of what's being talked about
today. We don't have sewage infrastructure, we're still dumping sewage into the
ocean. We can't handle our current sewage treatment. We don't have water
infrastructure, and we're seeing what's happening in, on Red Hill and it's terrible and
sad, but it also shows us that water is a resource that's completely irreplaceable. It's
priceless, you cannot compare anything else to clean fresh water and we have a limited
amount of it. So we have to limit the number of humans who come here, and this is a
good step to do that.
I just encourage you to follow the Maui County plan. There is an obligation to residents
to follow this plan and that's it. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Maria Gardner. To be followed by Jerome Kekiwi, Jr.
CHAIR LEE; Next.
COUNTY CLERK: Jerome Kekiwi Jr.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I think that's enough time. Move on.
COUNTY CLERK; Let's try Daniel Logtenberg.
MR. DANIEL LOGTENBERG. (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Thank you. Chairman and Members, for allowing me to testify about CC 22-9 today.
My name is Daniel Logtenberg and I'm not a paid lobbyist. I'm heavily invested in the
tourism industry due to the number of responsibilities I have, including as a tour
operator, businessowner, a travel agency businessowner that specializes in vacation
packages, and the owner of an advertising and marketing agency based here on Maui.
I'm well aware of the challenges each sector faces, and nothing operates in a vacuum,
but we sometimes need to put a break on actions to give us time to adjust to new
realities. The pandemic has been a missed opportunity for us to review some of the
tourism impacts naturally, so we must force an unnatural pause instead through a
moratorium. Every new construction should take into account our reefs, landscape,
and community impact. I don't think the Planning Departments are rigorous enough in
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 120
the compliance checking, so it's best not to allow new construction on that scale right
now.
As a marketing agency, the insight I have spans across all island industries, including
to our construction industry clients. The pandemic was probably one of the most
profitable times in their history in comparison to every other sector on the island. They
adapted quickly to new ways of operation and continued to attract new workers to the
islands. They could, could not keep the workers because of the high cost of living, so
if they're not busy building hotels for the next two years, then that will incentivize us to
get to the approvals and planning done for homes.
As a travel agency that books thousands of hotel rooms a year, I have not had any
issue booking guests into rooms. We do not need more of the same hotel rooms
perse, and the incredible prices increases we've had are not entirely market driven.
So no amount of new hotels will change that. We need hotels built that cater to people
who are looking for the VRBO or Airbnb type experience. That is what the tourism
industry is marketing, yet we are giving them hotel room boxes with one window and
no connection to the people or the island. Until hotels make the change in their
offerings, it's ridiculous to think that short-term rentals in our neighborhoods will stop.
None of the hotel's plans will solve that so why continue to serve a market with styles
of hotels that are not serving the community or the industry well?
The issue I have as a tour operator and businessowner with a staff of over 25 is that I
can't service more tourism visitors if I don't have a stable staff. We are trying to create
solid middle income class jobs, but they can't live comfortably so they don't stay.
Training and getting people up to speed is very expensive for local businesses, so
that's a huge loss to us each time. The housing options for middle class families that
work in the tourism industry is terrible. They must have roommates or be in cramped
housing that is way too expensive for how much the market says they should demand.
We will never solve this problem completely, but what, but we have to give it more than
lip service, and I think a moratorium shows that we are prepared to do something about
it. Part of the lack of housing is due the ability of nonresidents to own and operate
multiple short-term accommodations ... so I ask you, please continue to support the
moratorium and override the veto. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you very much.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Jerome Kekiwi, Jr. To be followed by Junya Nakoa.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 121
MR. JEROME KEKIWI JR., (testifying on Resolution No. 22-4):
Hello. You guys can hear me? Alright, yeah. My name is Jerome Kekiwi Jr. here to
testify on Resolution 22-4. I'm the President of Na Moku Aupuni o Ko'olau Hui and our
members are lineal descendants and current residents of Keanae-Wailuanui, East
Maui. We grow taro, fish, hunt, and gather to feed our families as a way of life. We
are the lead plaintiffs in the East Maui water cases, including June 2018 decision that
restored East Maui streams.
We would like to thank our elected Councilmember Shane Sinenci for his strong
leadership on this issue. We believe he has done as much as humanly possible to do
the right things for his constituents. Thank you, Councilman. Sinenci.
In testimony before the Board of Land and Natural Resources last year on whether
EMI's final EIS should be accepted, we acknowledged the good work and relationship
that our community has recognized and developed with Mahi Pono. However, we did
express concerns that the BLNR not turn, turn over control of this critical public trust
resource to a foreign based pension investment fund whose business model includes
acquisition of water rights both here and abroad, for profit.
We agree with this resolution's basic premise, which is that of fiduciary policy and
decision makers, this Council is obligated to act foremostly in the best interest of its
constituents who are also public trust beneficiaries.
The truth is that for many decades our community suffered great injury, acknowledged
in both court and Commission on Water Resource Management decisions, under Mahi
Pono's predecessor EMI, as well as County, who were allied against us in our water
struggles. Before this, it was very difficult for our community to side with either Mahi
Pono or the County.
What is proposed in this resolution looks good, but politics begin, what they are, and
in spite of our best efforts, too often we have seen good public policy, and practice,
shift to bad after an election. So we are hoping that all of you who believe that public
trust resources should be managed by Hawaii, and not foreign corporations, will
continue to serve on this Council.
After many decades of fighting all the powers that be, the State, County, labor unions,
big corporations, their vast networks of supporters, here is our, what our community
can say for certain. Hawaii Public Trust resources should be controlled by Hawaii. It
is dangerous to surrender this trust obligation to a foreign for-profit corporation. Our
disadvantaged position relative to the global market is readily apparent with our
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 122
housing crisis. Foreign investors with unlimited cash and literally pricing local people
out of their homeland.
What we want is a community partnership, management, and stewardship. It's going
on four years since streams were restored in our moku, and we have endeavored to
do all within our power and means to be good stewards. This is not a business
proposition for us, but one of sacred kuleana, and our community has been diligently
exploring various models and viable alternatives.
Our community's mission is to be good stewards of the land and its resources.
Whatever happens today, we would like to have a stronger and more cooperative
relationship with all the stakeholders, to work together to take care of the land and
water. In the past, efforts at this have been blocked. We remain open to working with
all stakeholders to move forward in a pono way. Thank you for this opportunity to
testify. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
If not. Madam Clerk. Thank you, Mr. Kekiwi.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Junya Nakoa. To be followed by Clare Apana
MR. JUNYA NAKOA. (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-1, 22-2, 22-7, 22-9 &
22-10 and Resolution Nos. 22-4 & 22-5):
Howzit, you guys can hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can.
MR. NAKOA: Yessah, how you guys, long one yeah, brah. I going talk about, I going talk, I
going talk about everything. Nah, only joke, only joke, only couple.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
MR. NAKOA: Nah only joking, I only joking. 1 seen your face Alice, I only joking. But, eh was
awesome, the Komoda Bakery thing was ono, watching ... got hungry. The music by
all the, the braddahs and sistahs unreal. My niece is one of um, Makamae Auwae,
yee hah. But now, back to, down to business.
Yeah, the Red Hill one, yep, solid, Maui gotta show support. Yeah, get those, tell the
Navy take that buggah out.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 123
Okay, next one, the, the water one, 22-4, yeah hey good job. You know what, we gotta
take back our own, Maui County take back our water. You know what I mean that's
the first step over there, yeah. But we get problem over here Lahaina, you know we
get the guy, yeah the Peter Martin kind, he take control of the water over here. So
maybe you can go workon that buggah next, you know what I mean. Cause my brother
Charlie, he live up there, he gotta, sometimes when he no more water he gotta call him
up and grumble ah. So yeah, so take back our water gang, take back our own Maui
County. No let anybody else tell us what for do. We do urn, we take care of urn, we
better, we more better.
Next one, okay, 22-7, the, you know the . .. the funds, the emergency funds for all that
thing, yeah. Yeah, my two daughters, two daughters that was close contact, yeah with
somebody who test positive and they was looking for tests on Tuesday and, brah they
had hard time. You know what i mean, my daughters, my youngest daughter's
appointment was supposed to be today and that was Tuesday. You know, that was
for today. But lucky I get contact with somebody who had the two tests one, yeah, that
come in one packet so my daughter and the boyfriend got taken cared of. And good
thing the buggahs was negative. But then my oldest daughter when go to the Maui
County one, yeah the one at the War Memorial, yeah, eh mahalo for that buggah, but
she made appointment at 8:00, she went there at 7:30, they neva get out of there till
almost 9:45, 10:00. Crazy yeah brah, that’s, it's taking up a whole lot of time and all
that stuff, but so we gotta look where all the money stay going.
You know what I mean, like I think was that Mabbutt lady, she was talking about the,
you know, the funds this, and the funds overthere. And then, like you know, get hidden
the, the guys they stay doing urn behind doors like that. Brah, you know when you
guys talk about our budget like that, 1 give you guys credit cause that buggah long time
yeah. Keani, you know, long time you guys gotta sit in the budget stuff and talk about
all the money and where all the buggah go. Brah, that's what the Mayor should be
doing when he talking about this emergency, emergency fund. Make urn, make um
public so we know where the hell the buggah going. You know what! mean? So be,
so be open, open the damn doors, no close the buggah. Cause I went over there for
two hours for talk to the guy. The door was closed. But you know what 1 mean. So
they should do that, that meeting for that budget stuff, the emergency stuff open so we
know.
So we feel good because I going tell you guys this brah. I when call Josiah, and ! got,
oh . . . and I actually got in, contacted the guy. Oh brah, that really no happen, they,
they, they block Junya Nakoa's number. But I got through, but, the kine, I talked to
Josiah and I told him i have connections, I not joking, for get 100,000 tests over here
in 48 hours. Okay, on Tuesday I when call for 15,000 for get shipped to Oahu for one
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 124
big hotel over there so they can test their employees and all that kind stuff so they,
they're buying 15,000 for the kine. And so, and I tell Josiah I have that connection.
Okay, but he said he get um. they get urn, they, they, they got it under control. But if
he had um under control how come we no can find test sites. ... how come we cannot
find tests for the, for, for the people of Maui. So again, maybe we can tell um that be
more open about where all the money going. Okay what number I was, 22-7.
Now I going talk about the 22-9, the Mayor's veto. Yeah, Bill 148, oh boy. Yeah, this
the second, second time, yeah, we go around. Brah, 1 was going tell you guys this
brah, I was sick and tired of the Mayor vetoing everything that you guys do and put all
this hard work into listening to us. How many hours and us guys, no get paid, we no
work for the, we no work for one union, we not, we no get paid for come testify. We
gotta wait this long. We gotta do this again and again. I tired of all this vetoes brah, I
really tired, 1 getting piss off. Okay, that's crazy . . . but, you know the thing, getting to
his da kine, um listen to the residents of Maui. We are, we are the ones like, what her
name, Cara when put 400 something people was, you know, was for the moratorium.
Fine, not against um.
You know, so think about the. the, da kine, and you know what, if we only get certain
amount of hotel rooms yeah over here, then we can start getting quality visitors that
going learn how to listen. We can make um pay little bit more money yeah and then
they going come over here and listen to the culture, learn the safety about where to
swim, why not to swim, no face your back to the ocean. You know all that kind stuff
that should be done. Get quality, quality visitors no get any kind dummy, dummy's that
come over here for $99 kind like that and then they think they own the world. You
know what 1 mean so get some quality buggahs. This and this moratorium going put
a pause on um for little bit. Yeah, and these hotels can help themselves out. . .
CHAIR LEE: We losing you. We're losing you, Junya.
MR. NAKOA; Can you hear?
CHAIR LEE: Turn off your video. Turn off your video.
MR. NAKOA: ... my face, hold on. Yeah, you can hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MR. NAKOA: Yeah, see, yeah you no need see my ugly face. But okay, but yeah, you know
if they can get quality workers brah, you know the good workers if they make um clean
the rooms more often so the, the, when you charge plenty money they going, they
going, you know they going enjoy the thing. So the Mayor should get off his okole and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 125
talk to the ILWU who represents a lot of the people in Lahaina, and, you know, work
on that. And then yeah, so that's 22-9.
Now, I'm going talk about 22-10, that's the Planning Commission report eh. You know
this Commission, they steady approving all these projects, yeah, for build hotels like
that. You know on the construction guys that testify, oh we need jobs and all that kind
stuff. You know us locals, yeah, we in Lahaina, we got, we got screwed. All the hotels
that was built on Kaanapali, Northshore, they took away our beaches. That place was
good fun for go camping, okay, good fun for go fishing. Good fun you know to get
together, no problem pull up on the beach your truck, cruise um. But now we cannot
do that now.
Okay and we gave that thing up and they was supposed to build us affordable homes.
Nothing was built. And so you know all these guys, the paid lobbyists from the
contractors, the unions, and all these kind guys, eh power to you guys. But maybe you
guys should start negotiating to have them build homes for your workers. Try build
home for your, your Maui workers that working hard for you guys. Okay, so try work
on that instead of keep on building hotels and hotels and hotels. Try build workers for
your own, build homes for your own workers.
I remember one Uncle when testify couple, maybe last year about that, of all these
construction worker they like job but they cannot even get their own house. You know
what I mean? So maybe this, the guys that come over here, paid lobbyists and
contractors, eh, try work on taking care of building your employee some homes, the
houses like that yeah. So, okay, oh yeah, that's it. Oh brah I not even drink yet, I
thought I would be drunk by the time I testify.
CHAIR LEE; Junya, well, are there any questions for Junya? I, I have a question for you
Junya.
MR. NAKOA; No. yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Is there a Mrs. Junya in your life? Is there a Mrs. Junya? Just curious?
MR. NAKOA: What is that?
CHAIR LEE: You have a wife.
MR. NAKOA: Yeah, Mrs. Junya is called Budweiser.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 126
MR. NAKOA; Mrs. Junya is called Budweiser.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, just curious.
MR. NAKOA: The buggah no grumble.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, thank you.
MR. NAKOA: Yeah. yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Clare Apana. To be followed by John Kahawaii.
CHAIR LEE: I thought I saw her on the call earlier. Clare, are you there? Okay, we have to
go to the next person, come back to her.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, the next person would be John Kahawaii, followed by Ke'eaumoku
Kapu. Moving forward, the testifier Kaupena is the last one signed up to testify.
MS. KAUPENA KALIMA, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha and good afternoon. My name is Kaupena Kalima, I'm not a paid lobbyist. I’m
speaking on behalf of myself and my ohana in asking you to override the Mayor's veto.
I just think and know for myself why can't the investors invest in us? We are the people
of Maui, invest in our homes, invest in, keep, invest in the place where our keiki's can
stay because our visitors are just our visitors. We have lots of hotels for them, and we
can just use what, what is, what is there, you know. So I just, what's wrong with
investing in us?
. . . the carpenters, you still have a job, you still have skills. The tourist industry is not
the only industry that, that needs your knowledge in building for homes, our community
needs it. And just to share, I live in housing. We need more housing. We need more
housing for our homeless, people who are unable to move out on their own, so please
invest in us for all the carpenters and just whatever your skill is in, in this type of industry
that you think that the tourist industry is the only avenue. Invest in us, your homeland
in Maui. And that's all I was just calling for, for CC 22-9 and mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, are there any questions? If not, thank you again.
MS. KALIMA: Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 127
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Our next testifier is Christopher McGee. To be followed by Clare Apana
MR. CHRISTOPHER MCGEE, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Aloha, Maui County Council. Shuprobhat and I'd like to wish a very happy birthday to
Mike Molina's wife. My name is Christopher McGee, I'm a Maui resident, owner of
three local businesses. I am not a paid lobbyist. I'm here to submit testimony in support
of overturning Mayor Victorino's veto of Bill 148. i would state, start by saying thank
you to all of you, our Councilmembers for working hard and listening patiently to the
exhaustive testimony from both community members as well as the testimony of
lobbyists and businesses with interest in using our finite resources for, of, of Maui for
profit.
There is no doubt in my mind that if this bill becomes law and is enforced as it was
intended, it will slow economic growth in the industry of building new and transient
accommodation. It does not mean we have to slow economic growth in other areas,
I've heard.
CHAIR LEE: You're frozen, Mr. McGee. Could you turn off your video? That might help.
MR. MCGEE: Am 1 still here?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, you are.
MR. MCGEE: Okay, hope I didn't cut out too much, I'd specifically like to focus my testimony
on what this bill is in, well, I'm glitching, I'm just going to turn off my camera. Give me
one second. Sorry about that. What this bill is intended to do give us time to make
plans. In my view, principally we need to make plans around the diversification of
Maui's economy. I believe that there are tremendous opportunities for growth,
specifically in technology, information, and media. ... for all of the reasons we've
heard today, 1 encourage you to overturn the Mayor's veto and put the moratorium into
law.
And most of all, 1 encourage the Council to take the time to embrace creative solutions
available to us to diversify, diversify the economy. I heard someone say that passing
this bill will discourage investors in hotel development. And I agree it probably will, but
that's the point. Instead, let's seek out investment in businesses that offer sustainable
growth. There are more ways to stimulate the economy than the construction of new
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 128
hotels. I don't claim to have a complete solution, but I see many opportunities for
sustainable economic growth, and I hope that this pause in construction will give the
County and island time it needs to embrace a shift away from tourism as the primary,
as its primary source of income. Thank you very much.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
if not Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Thank you, Chair. We have some callers that are having technical
difficulties, so I'm just going to go through the list. Ke'eaumoku Kapu.
MR. KE'EAUMOKU KAPU. (testifying on County Communication Nos. 22-4. 22-5 & 22-9):
Aloha, can you hear me.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, aloha.
MR. KAPU: Hi, aloha, Councilmembers. Mahalo for this opportunity for me to testify. I will
be testifying on Bill 148, CC 22-9, CC 22-5, and CC 22-4.
And I'll start with CC 22-4 on the East Maui, East Maui water. I support it. I also support
Hui Na Moku giving them that opportunity to sit with all the stakeholders so they can
come up with a foolproof plan. I'm also encouraging this Council to make sure that
when the recommendations and the final verbiage is made throughout the duration of
this CC 4. that kuleana rights outstand the rest. That's been the whole problem from
the beginning that our rights have been diminished to a point as to where there is no
substance for us. So 1 would definitely like to encourage this Council to really look into
the water management on how kuleanas will not be side saddled as we've been for
years. Mahalo.
CC 22-5, urn, I totally support it. Urn years ago, my dad, Paul Kekai Kapu, he worked
for the Marines and when we saw this article in a newspaper some years ago, I would
say about 15 years ago my dad talked about Red Hill that he. he use to work. And he
said there was a fuel depot that went three miles down into the middle of the, the island
over there and that kind of blew me away that my father was responsible. And he said
that he couldn't even tell my mom the seriousness of the job that he was involved in as
a MP for the Marines to watch that place.
I'm really supportive in this Council taking this strong effort to support making sure that
the military get rid of it already. It's too much, too many years that this thing had
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 129
possibly been leaking. And at the same time I'd like to encourage this Council to also
look at the overlay of this island, what is actually impacting our resources. On the West
side I'm more concerned about the swimming pools, all the cracked swimming pools
along the shorelines, how many of that chlorine is seeping into the ocean? So when
you talk about. . . let's talk about the whole thing. I know the military is having their
issues, I know the general community is really pretty pissed off at this moment. But we
gotta try to look at our resources on whether or not our resources are being well cared
for. And mahalo for allowing me to testify on that.
The last testimony I would like to provide Bill 148, Victorino's veto, CC 22-9. I'm not a
lobbyist. I've been involved in nonprofits for a long time, over 20 some odd years and
being involved in these nonprofits, ... to find out that your strengths are because of
the people that you represent. And I would say, throughout the years we've ran about
five different nonprofit organizations, Hui o Wa‘a Kaulua, Na'aikane 0 Maui. We also
had a limited liability corporation called Kuleana Ku'ikahi, LLC. So, like I said I'm not a
lobbyist, but I see life differently because we advocate for people who hilahila, they
shame for talk about this kind of things. Some of them don't even know how to start
when they start talking about or dealing with these situations that we deal with when
we talk about overdevelopment, water issues. When we talk about the influxation of
tourism. That is the biggest issue that hits home base over here, especially in Lahaina.
You know, and with the Mayor vetoing this bill, he doesn't even want to give this an
opportunity to look at the positive percussion, repercussion that can happen. The
Mayor said that he feels that the moratorium would worsen an already, already just hit
the housing crisis by rent, renting to visitors and taking away housing that is needed
by Maui's working families. Well, what's the problem with that. Where did the problem
stem from?
You know, for years, we've been advocates to helping the hotel industries understand
what cultural, tourism and traditions is all about. I've been in the International Festival
of Canoe, we're trying to create a medium in there to make sure that the tourist are
being at the hotels and not going, urn, renting some Airbnb. Now I see urn along the
shorelines with all these damn makeshift tents that pop up on the beaches. So this is
a start in the right direction to really look at how we can stimulate our economy by at
least going and approaching the hotels and say what happened. Why isn't the tourist
not wanting to stay at your hotels?
Instead they're getting tricks and traps to say that it's better to stay someplace else. It
worsens the situation for us, especially for myself around the 501C nonprofit
organization, it's a cultural center and I don't.  .. any visits from the tourism, but I don't,
I don't ask for it. The bottom line, I think the hotels that are really . . . Kaanapali Beach
Hotel, man they did a wonderful job when they started the makahiki season because
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 130
they use to fill up their hotels. ... I just want to add this last thing to the commission,
to make sure override Mike Victorino's veto because he doesn't have the legitimate
excuse as to why he vetoed this so-called moratorium. So mahalo for this opportunity.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, do you have any questions? If no mahalo and may we
have the next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Our next testifier is Natalie Harcrow. To be followed by Thomas Croly.
MS. NATALIE HARCROW, (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Hi, my name is Natalie Harcrow. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. I'm testifying
on item 22-9 in support of Bill 148, the moratorium on visitor accommodations. Please
override the Mayor's veto. This is not a permanent solution to the overtourism issue;
however, it is a step in the right direction to start to manage tourism. From what I've
seen today, there is overwhelming local community support for this, and I am right in
that group of people, so please override the Mayor's veto and that's it.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, very good, thank you. Members, any questions? If not, may we have
the next testifier. One question first, one question. Member Paltin, did you say 5:45
that you'll be leaving your office.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -older daughter.
CHAIR LEE: What’s that?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: My oldest daughter gonna pick up the kids so.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, you don't have to leave anymore.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yeah, i made other arrangements. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Anybody else have some kind of obligate, you know besides
Mr. Molina, taking his wife to dinner? Nobody else.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 131
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: No, no, wait no, I, I just want to tell you that I have a hard time seeing your hand
kind of gets lost in the clouds. Yeah when you put it-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: When you put it in front. I can see it. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, I'll put it right by the camera.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay, so I just wanted to say that at some point, I gotta make
dinner for this kid cause, you know. I'm the, !'m the adult here and she can't take care
of dinner, so at some point in time.
CHAIR LEE: Well what time do you normally feed her? What time?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Between 5:30 and 6:00.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, you know if we move quickly we might be done by 6.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Done with testimonies, you mean.
CHAIR LEE: No done with everything.
Madam Clerk, just a few more, you know, just keep going. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: We're almost there. Our next testifier is Thomas Croly. To be followed
by Dawn Hegger-Nordblum.
MR. THOMAS CROLY [testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Bill No. 2 (2022)1:
Aloha, Council Thomas Croly speaking on my own behalf. Thank you for taking the
time to listen everyone. The first item I wanted to comment on is Bill 2 and I will watch
Councilmember Paltin for affirmative response to my questions. I see this showing up
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 132
on the agenda and it seems odd that it's showing up on the agenda without apparently
having gone through Committee and, and first reading. Is that correct? Okay, alright.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Move forward.
MR. CROLY: Oh, just for format.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: We have a new agenda format, so that's how it is now. Maybe
they'll be a press release soon, but some people thought the old format was confusing.
So, now the introduced ordinances show up as ordinances, but it will go to Committee.
MR. CROLY: Okay, well then, then I'll skip making any comment on that today because it's
going to go to Committee and I can make comment then. So thank you for that.
With regard to the, the moratorium. It’s sad, I watched all of the testimony to have so
much angst in our community, you know, about something like this, particularly
something like this that is supposed to just be a temporary measure, right, two years
at, at most.
But one of the things that I see, and I felt I needed to make comment on was some of
the hyperbole that we hear from both sides, okay on this issue. And it starts right in
the Bill, right in the Bill where it says that the population of Maui is far less than 150,000
and the census made it clear the population of Maui Island is 154,100, so that's not far
less than 150,000.
And it says we have almost 70,000 daily visitors  aday. And that's not true either. In,
in 2019, when it references we had an average census count of 66,363. So it's
important to get these things right so the people understand exactly what we are talking
about. It's also important to understand that today, this past year, our average census
of visitors was 53,289. It's almost right in line with the three to one that we are
supposed to be striving for. So taking one year separately from others is really not the
right way to go about this.
And I looked at the last 25 years and I've given you guys this in testimony before and
in 16 of the last 25 years we have exceeded that three to one resident to visitor ratio.
So it's not unusual for us to exceed that and that is going to change, you know, year to
year depending on economic conditions and so forth. But I will note that the years that
we were underneath it were recessionary years where some of what is being said was
bared out, that, that, that if we don't continue to have a certain number of visitors, we
will have a recession and we will not have enough jobs for everyone. Right now we're
in a position that, you know, is, is completely different than anything with, that we've
experienced before.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 133
One of the things that I keep on, on pushing with respect to this is that the number of
visitors does include all of our part time residents, and that number keeps going up and
nothing in this Bill is going to change that. It, it includes probably 10 to 15,000 of those
daily visitors are our part time residents. And when I say part time residents, people
who have bought homes in Maui, and over this past year there have been an awful lot
of them who have bought homes in Maui as second homes and use them just for their
own use, not as illegal short-term rentals, but for their own use. And they're making up
a larger and larger percentage of our, of our visitors. So, saying you can't build another
hotel is not going to address that as, as an ongoing issue.
We can get some very, very good information from the SafeTravels website that has
been keeping track of where everyone who's getting off the plane is staying. So I'll, I'll
finish up real quickly, Chair. I would encourage you to take a look at the SafeTravels
website, where you will see that 50,000 of our visitors over this past year were as
saying I'm staying in my own home on Maui. So that's, that's something that, that I
think you have to take into account with respect to what the goals are in this
moratorium. Thank you. Members and thank you for all of your efforts today and good
luck with the decision-making.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you, Tom. Any questions?
Yes, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I just wanted to recognize Mr. Croly for his, his love for Bill 2.
I, I expected ... on it and the only one who did mention it today and I hope it meets
your standards when-
MR. CROLY: I do support it, yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: -happens fast. Okay, thank you, sorry.
MR. CROLY: Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I was thinking of him when  Iwrote it.
CHAIR LEE: Sure you were. Okay, anybody else with questions? Alright, thank you, Tom.
MR. CROLY: Aloha.
CHAIR LEE; May we have the next testifier, please?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 134
COUNTY CLERK: Our next, second to the last testifier is Dawn Hegger-Nordblom. To be
followed by Clare Apana. And after Clare, I do not have any other names signed up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. DAWN HEGGER-NORDBLOM (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9):
Hi, can you hear me?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
MS. HEGGER-NORDBLOM: Hi, how are you guys?
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
MS. HEGGER-NORDBLOM: Good, I'm trying to do my video, hopefully it'll start working.
There we go. So you know I kind of, I've been listening the last five hours and it's
always fascinating, thank you for hosting all these bills and everyone calling in of
course. I, the reason why I'm calling is to say please override Bill 148, CC 22.9 [sic].
I have a story to tell you. I have a client in Kaupo and that was the beginning of
December when it was the big rains. And so we went the back way, and the road was
all washed out and all these tourists were coming the back way to go to the National
Park. And because the road was washed out, they just kept pulling up and pulling up
and pulling up, and I was like, where are you guys parking? Anyway, so basically, long
story short is, they're like I can't believe Google didn't tell me that the road was washed
out. And I was like wow, you know, like we don't, you know this is rural Maui like back
here, there is no Google.
And the other story I have is you know there was  agirl, obviously a tourist and there
are all these goat bones and regular bones laying out on the gulches and stuff and
she's kicking these bones and she's asking her dad, hey dad are these human remains.
And I looked at her and I said I think they're goat bones, but if they're human remains
you don't want to be touching them at all. So, you know, the thing is, is that it's not
about just this vetoing the bill, but it's also working hand in hand with the Maui Lodging
and Hawaii Tourism Agency try to get the message out there that you know our natural
resources and our environment, especially being dealing with climate change coming
up is going to be very important.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 135
And I just wanted to kind of say you know, the Maui Island General Plan, you know, it
probably be very helpful as well to do a pause. You know to probably try to address
more protection of watersheds and coastal resources, economic diversification,
integration of land use and infrastructure planning, and also you know affordable
housing.
And then I'll just kind of close it with this, this is the Hawaii 2050 Sustainable Plan which
the County Council and also the Mayor's Office signed off on. And you know they do
have all these goals as well for sustainability. So I just wanted to end it on that note
for you and tell you those two stories about my tourist interactions. But I deal with it
every day because I live in West Maui, and it really is awful sometimes to have to
educate a tourist. And I don't want to, I don't feel like I should. I feel that there should
be a good message from the County and the State and the airlines and the, the visitor
industry. So that's all I have, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, questions. If not, thank you very much. Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Clare Apana.
MS. CLARE APANA (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution Nos. 22-3
& 22-4):
Finally. Thank you, thank you. I'm sorry for all my technical difficulties today. Thank
you for allowing me to testify on this long list of people. I think that there are many
important things that have already been said and  Ijust want to add my two cents in
about some of the, some of the things that I think are really good bills that are coming
through and one is the affordable housing in Hana.
And second, I'd like to say that I think it's also really tremendous that you are taking
the interest you are in the East Maui water situation, the leases. Because if we don't
show that we're interested in what happens to our own island, who is going to do that?
And I don't say that you are the last body that should be having the say, but thank you
for being willing to look at saying something so that we can have a better system.
We know that the way it's gone has not been fair to the people. And especially not fair
to the kalo farmers who I still see Isaac Moriwaki with his finger in the air saying they
are number one. And we never see them on a lease where they, we ever considered
that we should say what about all the people in this area who should have water, do
they have water? And I think that should be one of the considerations as well as what
kind of a steward is this person who's asking for  along-term lease? Is a company that
acquires water leases all over the world, is that  agood steward? And I, I hope that you
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 136
will be able to vet this and at least represent our island and our people so that we get
to say something about our own water. Thank you so much for that.
And the third one that I would like to speak about, of course, is the moratorium. You've
done a tremendous job in bringing a, forward a problem that we ail saw during the
pandemic and said, let's not go back there, let’s not go back there. And I thank you so
much for having the will to follow this through. And I hope you will overturn the Mayor's
veto because instead of thinking that it's going to create a problem, I think it, it's a good
sign that we need to address this problem also. Let's put that on, next on the list.
And for the many reasons as you know that our organization, Malama Kakanilua has
gone through great lengths to say that tourism and development is over running our
cultural sites, our iwi kupuna, and why is this happening? It's, it's such a great, it's such
a great fit to be able to take a breath and look at how we can protect the environment,
how we can protect our iwi kupuna, and, and thank you for listening. Thank you so
much for listening to the kanaka maoli people. I really cannot tell you how much I
appreciate this Council. So thank you, that, that is all I have to say and thank you for
allowing me to come on so many times.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions? If not, thank you again.
Madam Clerk, lets go.
COUNTY CLERK: We have two new, two new testifiers Mr. Stephen Leis. To be followed by
Albert Perez. And if anybody else wants to testify, now's the time to sign in.
MR. STEPHEN LEIS (testifying on Countv Communication No. 22-9):
Ah, can you see me? I'm not really good at the technology, or can you hear me? This
is . . .
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, we can see you Stephen, well not. . .
MR. LEIS: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We can hear you, we can hear you.
MR. LEIS: Great, I've spent the whole day listening, it's an amazing process I must say.
Councilmembers, I'm testifying in opposition of the moratorium. My name is Stephen
Leis, I'm the President of Dorvin Leis Company, Inc. one of Hawaii's large
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 137
subcontractors. The company was established by my family, and we've been living
and working in Maui for 50 years and we have deep ties to the community.
We have employed thousands of local residents, many times spanning multiple
generations of the same family. We look out for our employees and do our darn best
to see that they have good jobs and as such I felt compelled today to testify based on
our employee's thoughts and feelings about the moratorium. The majority of the
employees support continued planned growth on Maui and agree it needs to be better
managed, which includes balancing the quality of life and the need for economic
stability.
Avoiding overgrowth on Maui is a common goal, but there are concerns of the
immediate and long-term impacts of a moratorium adding to the chaos and inflation we
are experiencing due the COVID impacts. In other words, it's not a good time;
therefore, I recommend the Council reconsider this moratorium. This is an extremely
complex matter and too many unknown risk factors. So decisions should be carefully
considered and not rushed. More time researching impacts should be taken before
enacting any measure that would have long term, long term, long reaching and
potentially detrimental ramifications. We do not want to continue, continue to lose our
best and brightest employees and their young families because work is not available
and it's too difficult to . . . the economic, economically here.
I support more research with a broad group of stakeholders at the table, including
consultants who specialize in the area to provide alternative options for managing
growth for the group to explore. Also impacts to revenues should be thoroughly
understood and include, included in the overall analysis of multiple industries will be
impacted, which include a variety of revenue streams that, that the County relies on to
operate. Please consider these critical issues before overriding the veto. In my
opinion, the prudent course of action is to research the issue in greater details now,
finding solutions, solutions other than the moratorium should be the goal, not a pause.
A final thought. Like I said earlier. I’m really impressed with this process today. I'm
confident in all of you for being open and courageous in your decision-making on this
very critically important issue. You have my empathy, and you have my complete
respect for what you do. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you very much. Members, questions. If not, thank you again. And then
we have our last testifier.
COUNTY CLERK: Mr. Albert Perez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 138
MR. ALBERT PEREZ (testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and Resolution
No. 22-4):
Aloha, Councilmembers. Good evening. Uh, aloha ahiahi, I think is what you'd say.
Anyway, I'm Albert Perez, I'm with Maui Tomorrow and I'm testifying first on Resolution
22-4. I'd just like to say that it's very risky and poor policy to continue Maui County's
reliance on a water supply that is subject to the whims of for-profit corporations. With
climate change, we're seeing more drought, alternating with rain bombs. If and when
another rain bomb causes a big landslide that blocks the ditches and the corporate
owners think it's too expensive to fix, will they just walk away. If corporate ownership
changes and the new owners have different priorities, will the County still get water?
County acquisition of water systems, like the EMI System and Wailuku Water
Company, would ensure that public interests are given priority instead of hoping that
the owners will continue to give us water. We need local control of our most precious
resource.
The system should be acquired by the County and operated by a nonprofit water
system administrator which should include the current staff who know the systems. By
administering the water systems consistent with the public trust, all users could get fair
water allocations and our public water supply won't be at risk. I ask the Council to
support this resolution and I hope that you can pass it today in order to influence
decisions that will be made very soon regarding water leases for East Maui.
Moving onto County Communication 22-9, Bill 148.  Iwould like to encourage you to
override the Mayor's veto of the moratorium. There is huge public support for an
override. But many people don't understand the need to testify over and over on the
same issue, they figure taking off work to speak once is enough, and they're not paid
to testify by development companies.
When the Mayor vetoed the previous moratorium Bill 60, the reasoning was that there
were legal problems with the Bill, and it would push development of visitor
accommodations outside West and South Maui. He said that this bill, now called Bill
148, would be better because it would not suffer from those legal problems and would
apply to the island, entire island of Maui.
Well, now he's opposing it. But the reasoning is flawed, the reasoning that he
presented in his veto message. So according to the Mayor, we need to keep building
visitor accommodations to stop illegal vacation rentals. That doesn't make sense,
especially when his Planning Department says the problem is under control. The
Mayor is ultimately responsible for enforcing the law. Is he saying that we should
expect that he won't do his job? That doesn't make sense.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 139
As far as visitor numbers right now, the Department of Business and Economic
Development and Tourism says that for November 2021, the average daily census was
57,562. With a resident population of 154,100 the number of visitors was over
37 percent in November So we are over, and this is typically a slower month for
November, slower month for tourism, over the desired 33 percent. Those who say that
this moratorium is legally flawed must have missed the excellent presentation we had,
which told us exactly how the moratorium bill must be crafted in orderto be enforceable.
And once again, this moratorium will not affect existing hotels, existing hotel
employees, or the vendors that service those hotels. These existing hotels are already
built, and they will not be affected by a pause on building new ones. In fact, they'll
benefit from reduced competition. Building visitor accommodations forever is
unsustainable and is not consistent with your support for a quality over quantity visitor
industry. We need our construction workers to help our local residents by building
affordable housing instead. And there's always lots of ongoing renovation work in
existing hotels, so please override this veto. Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you. Members, any questions?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, quickly, so I know we all want to get onto the agenda.
Thanks for. . . the beginning that we're still here at night, Albert. So I wanted to ask
you when, in your testimony you were indicating that the Mayor had said he would
support this moratorium.
MR, PEREZ: Well, he didn't exactly use those words, but he said that this one was better
because the, the Bill 60 had some legal problems and didn't apply to the whole island,
so he said it was going shove visitor accommodation development outside West and
South Maui. But he seems to have forgotten those reasons in opposing this one.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I don't remember. . . okay. I'll leave it at that, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions, Members? If not, thank you very much Albert. Happy
New Year.
MR. PEREZ: Yeah, aloha. Happy New Year.
CHAIR LEE: Any more testifiers.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 140
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, we have one number that keeps trying to call in ending in the four
digits 7048, from Hana.
(testifying on County Communication No. 22-9 and ResolutionMS. LEHUA COSMA
No. 22-3L
Hello.
CHAIR LEE: Yes, we can hear you.
MS. COSMA; Okay, aloha Members of the Maui County Council.
CHAIR LEE: Hello.
MS. COSMA: My name is Lehua Cosma.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Hi, please feel free to go ahead with your testimony.
MS. COSMA: Okay. My, my first testimony would be on. Bill 60/s/cj, 22-3.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. COSMA: And uhm, in full support of this affordable housing in Hana.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. COSMA: And the reason is we are way oyerdue for, for haying that, and so I ask and
seek your support to extend the deadline so that we can move forward in a more, in
the right direction and start this project going for the people of the Hana community.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
MS. COSMA: So I thank you and I support that, and  Ipray that you all will be in support of
that as well.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, we will vote on it in a very short time. Thank you.
MS. COSMA: Okay, one more thing before I leave is on this bill for the moratorium. I think
it's Bill 148. Am 1 correct?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 141
MS. COSMA: Okay, I, I would like to ask all of you to, to make a wise decision because I truly
feel that Maui is, is so impacted with traffic, water, and with just too many things going
on that it's destroying some of our quality of life. Especially those that was born and
raised here we see changes every day and, and I don't think that adding more, another
hotel would, would be a benefit to the community. Because many of us we, we don't,
we can't afford hotels anymore. We gotta go in parking lots, sleep in our car. Or we
gotta buy a house . . . pile up, it's just too much for Maui to handle at this moment. So
I ask that, please support you know the, this bill in putting in a moratorium so that
everybody can breathe and think better before coming up with a solid decision.
So, I thank all of you and I respect all of you. And i want to wish you all a very Happy
New Year.
CHAIR LEE; Happy New Year to you. Thank you.
MS. COSMA; And I thank our East Maui County Council Shane Sinenci, who's always
working behind closed doors because of all these zoom meetings. And all of you, not
just him, but since he represents Hana, I just want to say mahalo to all of you and ahui
hou.
CHAIR LEE; And thank you and ahui hou as well. Okay, bye. Alright, Members and trust no
questions? Next testifier.
COUNTY CLERK; We just have one more caller, perhaps with the last four digits of the
telephone number 5606.
CHAIR LEE; Wow.
COUNTY CLERK; And besides that, we have no other testifiers noted, and if an individual
connected to the meeting has not yet testified but would like to do so, please unmute
and identify yourselves now. This is the last call for testifiers.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, no one else has indicated that they wish to testify, and we have
received written testimony.
CHAIR LEE; But what about that number that you saw on the line?
COUNTY CLERK; 5606, no response.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 142
COUNTY CLERK: And they are unmuted.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members, any objections to receiving the written testimony and closing,
oral testimony at this time.
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
THERE BEING NO OBJECTION, WRITTEN TESTIMONY
RECEIVED FROM THE FOLLOWING WERE MADE A PART OF
THE RECORD OF THIS MEETING:
Christopher Delaunay, Pacific Resource Partnership:
William J. Aila, Jr, Hawaiian Homes Commission;
Nick Drance;
Pamela Tumpap, Maui Chamber of Commerce;
Mufi Hannemann, Hawai'i Lodging & Hotel Association;
Bobbie Best;
David Dorn;
Dick Mayer;
Jerome Kekiwi, Jr.;
Karri Ayosanonda;
Vijak Ayosanonda;
Barbara Barry;
Carson Bender;
Mike Betz;
Eliza Brady;
Makana Brito;
Tyler Brooks;
Kenneth K. Martinez Burgmaier;
Dwight K. Burns;
Andy Chenoweth;
Scott Crawford;
Judith Culler:
Michael Cummins & Jennifer Shannon;
Christina Currie;
Michael Daddario;
Grace Delos Reyes;
Jeremy Delos Reyes;
Susan Douglas:
Linda Duncan;
Kai Duponte;
Jenna Fish;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 143
32. Amy Fonarow;
Dean K. Frampton, Maui County Board of Water Supply;
Stan Franco;
Michael & Barbara Gach;
Jerry Gibson, Hawaii Hotel Association;
Julienne Givot;
N. Goode;
Bill Greenleaf;
Christina Hartman;
Debbie Hollomon;
Heidi Holloran;
Donna Howard;
Mark Hyde;
John & Anna Impey;
Molly Jacobson;
Dorothy Jakubek;
Kelly Jakubek;
Sandra Kaestle;
John Kevan & Angela Leone;
Jo Kimm;
Sheldon Kohatsu;
Joseph Kohn;
Marty Martins;
Jeffrey Masatsugu;
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association;
Liz McGain;
Thai Nguyen;
Ryan Nobriga, ARDA Hawaii;
Dawn Niederhauser;
Raphiell Nolin;
John Okamura;
Mavis Olivera-Medeiros, Earle Medeiros Sr. & Earle Medeiros Jr.;
Sara Patton;
Paula Phillips;
Terry E. Restivo;
Kathryn Reynolds;
Anthony Riecke-Gonzales;
Irene Ryding;
Ryan Sakuda;
David Sandomire;
Melvin P. Silva, Jr., International Union of Bricklayers and Allied
Craftworkers Local #1 of Hawaii;
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 144
73. Kayla Shaw;
Sydney Smith;
Chuck Spence;
Amy Stephens;
Kainalu Steward;
Mimi Boyum Tackaberry;
Luanne Teoh;
Claire Thompson;
Tytan Timoteo;
Mary Trotto;
Analeseanoa Tuiasosopo, Hawaii Operating Engineers Local 3;
Cameron Uphoff;
Elaine Wender;
Temple Weste;
Naomi Wick;
Steve Wilson; and
Charlene Yoshimura.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, so order.
Madam Clerk
COUNTY CLERK: Proceeding with minutes.
MINUTES
The minutes of the Council of the County of Maui's regular meeting of October 22, 2021 was
presented at this time.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS READ BY THE
CLERK.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 145
CHAIR LEE; Moved by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to approve the minutes of October 22, 2021.
If not, all those in favor, raise your hand and say "aye".Any discussion?
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES; NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Nine "ayes", zero "noes". Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair proceeding with the Consent Calendar.
ACTION ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
- JOHN PELLETIER. CHIEF OF POLICE
(dated December 22, 2021)
NO. 22-1
Transmitting a copy of the Memorandum of Agreement with the Department of Health,
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division for the Prohibiting Tobacco Sales to Persons Under
the Age of Twenty-One program in the amount of $11,000.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
- MARK I. TAKAMORl. DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATIONNO. 22-2
(dated December 2, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the notice of grant award from the State Department of
Transportation for the transportation planning portion of the Maui MPO FY2022 Unified
Planning Work Program totaling $200,000.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 146
NO. 22-3 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated December 17, 2021)
Informing of a vacancy on the Board of Water Supply due to the resignation of Joseph
Aquino, effective December 16. 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. For the motion on the entire Consent
Calendar.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE ALL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT CALENDAR.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member
Sugimura, to file all the items on the Consent Calendar.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Nope. No discussion. Okay.
All those in favor of the motion, please raise your hand and say "aye".
Eight "ayes", zero "noes". Member Kama? Member Kama?
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR ALICE L. LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with county communications.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 147
COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS
NO. 22-4 - SCOTT K. TERUYA, DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
{dated December 16, 2021)
Transmitting 96 contracts/grants for the month of November 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. May  !request the Clerk also call up
County Communication 22-5 through 22-7?
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
NO. 22-5 - ROWENA DAGDAG-ANDAYA, DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS,
(dated December 23, 2021)
Informing of the re-organization of positions within the Department of Public Works,
Highways Division.
NO. 22-6 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated December 10, 2021)
Informing of a grant award from the United States Department of Treasury from the
American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery
Fund, Non-Entitlement Units of Local Government in the anticipated total amount of
$17,523,295.
NO. 22-7 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated December 10, 2021)
Transmitting a copy of the grant award terms and conditions from the United States
Department of Treasury signed upon the County of Maui's application request for
funding from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, Coronavirus State and Local
Fiscal Recovery Fund.
CHAIR LEE: Council Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 148
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATIONS 22-4, 22-5,
AND 22-7, EXCEPT FOR THE GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
THAT COUNCILMEMBERS REQUEST FOR COMMITTEE
REFERRAL: AND TO REFER COUNTY COMMUNICATION
22-6 TO THE BFED COMMITTEE.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Pro Tern Kama, to file
County Communication 22-4, 5, 7. And to refer 22-6.
Discussion? Oh, I should have said except for the contracts that Members want to pull
out. Are there any contracts?
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, I, I have a contract that I'd like to pull out. And then, I have
a question about 22-7.
BUT, FOR THE CONTRACT, I WANTED TO PULL OUT
C7153-1 AND ASK MEMBER KAMA IF SHE WOULD HEAR
THIS IN HER COMMITTEE? IT'S JUST SORT OF A PARKS
AND REC PROJECT.
But it's one that keeps, that's been extended, it looks like. And it's, it's. I'm getting a lot
of calls about it from my community. It's a skateboard park that they've been working
on for a couple of years.
CHAIR LEE; Is it okay?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, Chair. Definitely okay. Thank you. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Member Kama. appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Anymore contracts?
Member Johnson.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 149
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair.
I WOULD LIKE TO PULL TWO GRANTS RELATED TO RENTAL
ASSISTANCE. HERE'S THE NUMBERS: G5526 AND G5541
TO BE PUT INTO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMITTEE,
IF POSSIBLE.
Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Second? Second? Okay, moved by Member Johnson, seconded, seconded
by Member Sinenci, to pull--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Point of order. It’s just a request, it's already
included in my main motion.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright. Did you know that Member Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. That, that's wonderful then. I guess, I did have one
more though that not, that's not in my Committee. But I'd like to just like,
Councilmember King, I'd like to ask if I could put it in someone's Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
THAT IS THE AXIS DEER SURVEY FROM DHHC.
NUMBER IS G53751, OR 75-1. AND IF WE COULD PUT IT IN
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA'S COMMITTEE.
THE
And she's got a thumbs up, so.
CHAIR LEE: IT? Okay. Very good.
Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 150
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. I skipped over one that  Iwas going to ask as well.
SINCE WE'RE ON COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA. WOULD
YOU BE WILLING TO TAKE THE CONTRACT C7519 ON THE
SOUTH MAUI BASEYARD FEASIBILITY STUDY TO YOUR
COMMITTEE?
Okay. . . .
CHAIR LEE: C519,wasit?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: C7519.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any other contracts?
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, thank you, Gabe and Kelly. You, you read my list.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SO. I ALSO WANTED TO LOOK AT WAIALE ROAD
EXTENSION, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. C7478.
And-
CHAIRLEE: Wait, wait. C7478.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: 78.
AND C7520, WHICH IS MY GYM HERE DOWN THE STREET.
WAIAKOA GYM, TO SEE WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH THAT.
AND THEN. ANOTHER ONE-
CHAIR LEE: Wait, wait, wait. That would go to Parks, right?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 151
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA; Oh okay.
IF, I WAS, I WAS GOING TO TAKE IT. I JUST WANTED TO
SEE WHAT WAS THERE AND WHAT’S HAPPENING. BUT IF
TASHA WANTS TO TAKE IT. SHE CAN TAKE IT.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: That's fine.
CHAIR LEE: Well, it's a parks, it's a park--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: -facility, yeah.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, I got it. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, we'll talk story. And then, another one, which is
something that I worked on, I think two terms, or last term, of getting important ag land.
SO, THIS WILL ACTUALLY BE MR. SINENCI'S, IF YOU WILL
TAKE IT. IT'S C7126. SO, IMPORTANT AG LANDS, THAT'S
THE CONTRACT, IF YOU WOULD TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you-
CHAIR LEE: Did everybody-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -for the cooperation
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, this, I had a question, if everyone's done with the grants
and contracts. I just had a question for Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez on No. 22-7.
Because we did have folks that were interested in finding out how we're spending our
Coronavirus funds that are coming in through the American Rescue Plan. And so, this
one looks like it's just a grant award terms and conditions. Does that mean we can
still, at some point, review the spending, the actual money that's being spent?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 152
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, you're-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Talk a little louder, could you?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Member King, for your question. Yes, so
having this item in Committee under our new legislative numbering system would
enable us to have a full discussion on the 17 million and the Mayor's-
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, I know that one. But I was talking about 22-7, because that
one is also Federal funds, but from a American Rescue Plan that this, this ... be
related to Coronavirus. So, there were two different ones for the American Rescue
Plan, 22-6 and 22-7. You had wanted to file 22-7. So, I guess my question was, will
there be an opportunity to talk about the spending for the Coronavirus or from the
Coronavirus fund?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I can take them both to Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: If you, if that’s what you're asking.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, that's what I was asking, if we can, we can have discussion
on both of them. ! didn't know, I didn't want to hold it up if, if we needed to pass it for
terms and conditions, which is what it says on the form, but.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, I, I'm not passing them. There, I was just filing.
It's just a notification.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh. Yeah, okay. If we could refer both of those, that'd be great,
then we can have that discussion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
I WILL AMEND MY MOTION.
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 153
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
TO ALSO INCLUDE CC 22-7 TO BFED COMMITTEE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay, thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: My seconder, Member Johnson, confirmed his-
CHAIRLEE: Alright.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -support for that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now this whole thing is all mixed up, hammajang. C 22-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Would you like me to read-
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, redo it again. And, and take, and then, mention all the contracts you're
taking out.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Ooh, okay. I, I, the motion is to file County
Communications 22-4, and 22-5, and 22-7 [sic], except for the grants and contracts
that were listed by the Members. And I'm sure our staff has that. And to refer County
Communications 22-6 and 22-7 to the BFED Committee.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: And I seconded it.
CHAIR LEE: Didn't you just say, before you mentioned 22-6. that you were filing? First, I, I
thought you said you were referring 22-7 to BFED?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Are you referring that or filing that?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Filing County Communication 22-4 and 22-5. And
referring 22-6 and 22-7 to BFED.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorry.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 154
CHAIR LEE; Alright. And then, what about, so that takes care all, all of them, less the
contracts, the specific contracts that were requested to be pulled, right?
So, Madam Clerk, do you have all of that information?
COUNTY CLERK: Ido.
CHAIR LEE: You do?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so is everybody ready for the vote?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yes.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
CHAIR LEE: Opposed, "nay".
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Alright. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay, continuing with communications.
- YUKI LEI SUGIMURA. COUNCILMEMBER
(dated December 29, 2021)
NO. 22-8
Relating to Councilmembers' report on the Maui Metropolitan Planning Organization
Policy Board meeting on December 10, 2021.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sugimura.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 155
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-8.
I need a second.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, moved by Member Sugimura, seconded by Member Kama, to file SS, I
mean CC 22-8.
Any discussion. Member Sugimura?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, because there are three Members of this Council on
the Maui Metropolitan Planning Organization, that's the reason for this report. And the
meeting was held on December 10, 9:00 and to 10:52 a.m. via, via videoconference.
And let's see, the meeting was organized and facilitated by Maui Metropolitan Planning
Organization Director Lauren Armstrong. We had public testimony, but none were
provided.
The Board discussed the following MPO business, which is, the important thing that
we covered was assessment of the director's evaluation. And we also talked, we also
had a review of Kaahumanu Avenue Community Corridor, that TOD project, which was
very interesting, as well as talked about our transportation improvement projects. And
that's it. So-
CHAIRLEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: -appreciate it.
CHAIR LEE: Sounds good.
Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. Yeah, I thought we were going to get an
opinion from the Board of Ethics on whether you had to do these reports? Because-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 156
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Oh. I can. I'm sorry, I can.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Yeah, because I think it will save a lot of time from you having to
report every time. Since it's a public hearing and it's already noticed, I think that takes
it out of the realm of needing that special report. So, maybe we, you can get an opinion
from Board of Ethics and then you won't have to go through this every time you have
a meeting.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I will.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: I’ll do that. So, staff, you got that, right? Thanks.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Very good.
Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, okay. Sorry, you still have to vote on the main motion to file.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. So, on 22-8?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes, to file.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. All, all those in favor of the motion to file 22, 22-8, raise your hand and
say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA. PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGiMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NONE.NOES:
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes"zero "noes"; motion carries.
COUNCILMEMBERSUGIMURA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 157
NO. 22-9 - MICHAEL P. VICTORINO. MAYOR
(dated December 22, 2021)
Notifying of his veto of Bill 148 (2021), Draft 1. entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A
MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI".
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin. Was it Member Paltin? Who wants to take this? Member
Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay.
1 MOVE TO OVERRIDE THE VETO AS IT PERTAINS TO
BILL 148 (2021), ENTITLED "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI
COMMUNICATION 22-9.
AND FILE COUNTY
CHAIR LEE: Okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I should have called on Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez for this. Does it matter, Vice-Chair Rawlins?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. I saw this more as a land use item and I forgot it was initiated by the
Vice-Chair, yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so we have a motion, a motion to file this item. And seconded by Vice-
Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
Discussion? Member Paltin. Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your, your Planning and Sustainable Land
Use Committee had many discussions in addition to the CARE discussions on this item
and believe an override of the Mayor's veto to establish a moratorium on new transient
accommodations will benefit our community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 158
The purpose of the bill to establish a moratorium to maintain the number of transient
accommodation units for a two-year period until the Council enacts legislation
addressing the findings and recommendations presented by Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee established Tourism Management Temporary
Investigative Group, or two years from the enactment of the bill, whichever is sooner.
Your Committee further amended the revised bill to delete language extending the
moratorium an additional six months; delete Title 20, which was confirmed to be
redundant by the Department of the Corporation Counsel; and added an exception to
allow modifications to permits that existed prior to the effective date of the moratorium,
but do not increase the number of units. And I respectfully ask for the Members support
of my motion. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Alright, and then we have the seconder of the motion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Sorry, my laptop is not happy with
the, being on this meeting for so long. Okay. I strongly support the motion to override
and to file the County Communication. The olelo no'eau is he ali‘i ka ‘aina, he kauwa
ke kanaka, the aina is chief and the people her servants. Not he ali'i ka tourism
industry.
The Mayor criticized the bill for lacking transparency and public input. This bill followed
the process of going to the Maui Planning Commission, which is required for bills
affecting land use. And this Council adopted the recommendations, recommended
amendments when passing it out of PSLU Committee. So, the argument that this bill
lacks transparency in, and public input is unfounded, there has been so much public
input as demonstrated today.
In the second and final reading when we passed the bill. Member Sugimura posted an
amendment in accordance with Sunshine Law and Council Rules giving the public an
opportunity to provide feedback on the amendment being considered. What was
passed was the new affordable housing units must be physically constructed or
converted . . . the housing units currently used as transient accommodations to long
term housing for the purpose of this section.
The second amendment that was passed on second and final reading was that this
ordinance takes effect on approval and applies to new transient accommodations that
have not received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this
ordinance. As Mr. Mayer said in his testimony that this was not a substantive
amendment. This is nonsubstantive and just a rearranging of words. The, what was
amended was this ordinance takes effect on approval but does not apply to the
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 159
processing, approval, or granting of any application for the approval of new transient
accommodations that has received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective
date of this ordinance. So, that language just made it clear, and that’s all it was.
The moratorium would not affect existing accommodations or new accommodations
that received its final approvals before this bill. The Mayor cited the concern for further
proliferation of legal and illegal short-term rentals. It's important to note that these, that
these two should not be continued to be conflated.
The Planning Director informed us over the past three years that they have better
control over the unpermitted STR's in residential areas that require permits. The
Council has passed and considered more legislation to control STR's that do not
require permits by requiring TMKs on their advertising, for example. Mahalo Member
Paltin for introducing.
Then we heard from HHA, HHA today, that they have also been working on better
control mechanisms by clearly identifying legal and illegal STR's, and via Ms. Aiwohi,
are excited about collaborating with this County to accomplish that.
We heard a lot of testimony that this creates uncertainty for investors. To me, this
moratorium serves as a courtesy to send a strong message to the accommodations
industry that there is no uncertainty. We must better control the tourism industry that
is running over our County. For these reasons, I support the motion before us. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Just for the record, I want to have Member Paltin restate the motion.
Restate the motion please.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Alright.
The motion is to override the veto on 148, as well as file the countyCHAIR LEE:
communication.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. You want me to say that again one more time?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay. Imoveto-
CHAIR LEE: Apparently the staff didn't hear you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 160
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I might have been muted, I guess.
I MOVE TO OVERRIDE THE VETO AS IT PERTAINS TO
BILL 148 (2021), ENTITLED "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE,
DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI
COMMUNICATIONS 22-9.
AND FILE COUNTY
CHAIR LEE: Very good.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Do you want me to read all the other stuff too?
CHAIR LEE: What other stuff?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The first discussion.
CHAIR LEE: No, no. No, no. They just, we just wanted to clarify the motion. Yeah, notthe
discussion, the motion.
Okay, so staff, is it, are we on target?
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, so we heard your discussion. We heard Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez' discussion. Now, we have, weTe open for other Members.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair, for my opportunity. Yeah, moratoriums are
not new to Maui County, as Miss Bianca had mentioned. In fact, many other counties
have instituted moratoriums to address some of the challenges that they experience in
their own communities, unlike excessive traffic, illegal parking, illegal access, zoning
violations, climate change, and sea level rise, excuse me, including housing shortages.
Many testifiers spoke to overtourism and how it affects the quality of life here on Maui
County, and particularly the visitor to resident ratio that has exploded above and
beyond the level stated in the Maui Island Plan.  1guess my support to override the
Mayor's veto is not, not to negatively impact the construction industry. By all means,
hotels continue to update and renovate their existing rooms, as stated in Mr. Viloria's
testimony.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 161
I hope my vote will help the industry pivot some of their resources toward much needed
affordable housing units for our residents first, so we can secure a stable workforce on
the island and not risk importing more of them into the County.
Lastly, Chair, I too seen the Mayor's ordinance and some of the testimony from the
industry. And like other residents, I don't see the substance behind them still waiting
to see more reasons like sustainable practices from hoteliers, carbon neutral efforts,
more partnerships with watershed nonprofits, guided tour options, more safety videos,
local farm procurement contracts, and affordable housing for their workers. So, I speak
in support of the override. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE; Thank you.
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair. I, I also rise in support of overriding the
veto. There's not much else can, that can be said that was said. I appreciate it, all the
talking points. But I did want to bring up one thing of the idea of using our hardworking
construction workers as a red herring. They are not Joe the plumber. Because I know
how it is when, when we don't make enough money that, and we're building homes
that aren't for us.
When I worked in restaurants, I would go home hungry because the wages weren't
there. It's the same thing. We're, we're building things that aren't for us. So, I, I don't
want us to, to kind of ride the backs of the working folk that are, that are part of our
community and say oh, it's for them. The mansions, the hotels, those are for them.
I'm not buying it. So, I, I stand in strong support. And I think I, i, I appreciate a good
debate, but I think we've, we've beaten this horse, so that, that's all I want to say. Chair.
Mahalo.
CHAIR LEE: Anyone else? Member King? Member Molina? You don't have to speak.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, it's hard, it's hard to want to extend this meeting when
we've, everything that can be said has been said.  Ithink that there was a lot of
misdirection that was, you know, in the testimony we received today that was off a
playlist that was sent out by someone in the industry. And, and not accurate because
you know, like, like some of the testifiers said, we're not trying to shut down the
industry. We're taking a pause so we could figure out how to control the industry.
Moratoriums are an emergency, not to be used lightly, they are an emergency process.
And when you're in an emergency, you have to stop and, and you have to stop what
you're doing because what you're doing is adding to the fire. And, and we're trying to
find solutions right now.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 162
So. it, the moratorium is not something that we would go try to figure out in a TIG and
then create a moratorium. A moratorium is a stopgap so we can have this TIG and try
to figure out the solutions. That's what, and you know, that's what's being missed by
the entire industry that, that, you know, the goal here is to figure out how to go forward.
And maybe going forward is going to be to build, put a, a limit on how many hotels we
can build. But just like we've done with the transient vacation permits.
I don't know what it's going to be. Part of it, I think is going to be diversifying our
economy. Because the, the hotel industry is also  atrap for young people getting stuck
in 12 and $15 an hour jobs. And a lot of people that I know have left the island because
of that, because their career opportunities aren't here because we put so much energy
into creating these hourly jobs that just don't support. You can't support a family. You
can't even support yourself on one $15 an hour job. You just can't do it. You can't pay
your rent with the way the rents are.
So, I think we've been doing a good job as far as bringing more affordable housing in.
We've been addressing it that way. We've seen some of the first and lowest AMI
affordable rentals, so we've been trying to help out there. But still, I don't want people
just because now their rents lower, to still have to work two or three jobs, instead of
four or five, you know. So, this is a larger problem and I, and I think the only way to
put a hold on things while we figure out solutions is the moratorium. That's, that's why
I proposed it originally.
And this, where we're at today is we're even worse because now we have more data
since we reopened, you know, and then we caused another surge. So, we're not done
with this, with this Coronavirus. But where we still are going to be dealing with, with
health issues, because of the fact that we put our economy first. So, we haven't, we
haven't locked down the way we were originally. When we first, when we first got this
virus in our community, we had way lower numbers than we had today, and we locked
everything down.
Now, we're like exponentially more cases and we're still out there going to restaurants,
holding events and things. So, you know, it's just, the surge is going to keep
happening. And we're doing that because we're putting our economy first. But the,
that, you know, that, that, we can't keep doing that with, with building more and more
hotels. We have to, at some point, we have to stop and figure out if what we're doing
is the right thing. So, you know. I'm glad that we have the TIG going, but having the
TIG going is not a reason to not have the moratorium. The moratorium is what's going
to give us the chance to enact some of these solutions, I feel. So, I’m, 1 speak in favor
of overriding the veto.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 163
I'm really kind of surprised. I feel like I'm in the. or we're in the same position we were
in with the other moratorium, because the, the department, at least one of the
departments from the Administration came in support of the original moratorium, and
then it got vetoed. And then we just heard that the Mayor had made comments that
this moratorium would be okay, and now we're getting a veto. So, there's, there's some
inconsistencies in the Administration, in the communication with the Council, this, this
kind of ongoing theme.
But, and so, that's, that's another part of my frustration is, you know, there's been no
communication as to why, why these, these actions keep happening when we think
we're on a pathway where we're working with the Administration. And the same thing
happened with the sunscreen bill, we got full support. And then, we got a letter saying,
oh, maybe that's not so good and we should water it down before it goes into effect.
This, this is, we gotta stop, start working together at some point. And, but anyway,
that's a, that's another issue.
So, I just want to stand in support of overriding this veto, listening to the people of our
community who have had enough. And I also wanted to say, because I think it bears
saying, is that so much of what I heard was, was personal gain over the community.
And for people to say, oh, it's okay to build hotels in Wailea and in Lahaina, but just
don't build them in Waihee or, or where I live, you know?
I mean, we, there's a lot of people who live in Kihei. We don't want any more hotels.
We don't want any, we're living with the traffic, we're living with the crowded beaches
and the parking everywhere. You know, if, if, in the days when school comes back, it
takes me half an hour to get just, you know, what should be five minutes down the
road. And so, that was, that's really frustrating, you know, just for the folks out there in
the industry who are saying I need to make a buck, so you have to have more hotels
in your, in your neighborhood. That's what I'm hearing.
And there's gotta be a better way for us to all work together and figure out how to go
forward with everybody being part of the economy.  Iknow there is. And I have faith
that our TIG is going to find those ways. So, let's, let's put a hold on things for now.
Let's stop adding to the fire that we're in, while we're trying to figure out how to grab a
hose and put it out. So, that's my, my full support for the override. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina, do you have anything you'd like to say?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: No, I'd like to yield the floor to the, my other colleagues who
may have a different take on this. I, I, I will speak on it but, you know, you've heard
mostly from some of us on one side of the issue.  Isee Member Sugimura, also
Member Kama, so I'll be. I'll be gentlemanly--
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 164
CHAIR LEE: Member,
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: -and yield the floor.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you for being such a gentleman, Mr. Molina. And thank
you, Chair. Whoa, you know, the things that I think about when we work together is
how we can work together. We talk about stuff, we go back and forth in our discussions
about things. But in the end, although we all go to the same meeting, we all have
different takeaways from what we've heard. And one of the things I want to say I took
away from today, is how I feel about our people in the construction industry.
You know, in the early 70's, my husband was a construction worker, yeah. So, yeah.
I’ve been through those times when things were really lean with three kids, and when
things were really good with four, and when things where lean with six, and things
were, were good with seven. But, you know, it's, it's what the construction Industry is.
So, when I hear them come to us today, I think about my early days of being a mom
and a wife of a construction worker. And for two years, we're going to tell them go do
something else. I'm sure you can do something else. I'm not sure what the else is
when it comes to bricklayers, or painters, or glaciers, or guys who are grinders, or those
who are just the laborers, and all the different activities that come with that industry.
But I'm going to support those guys, because I love them and I know how hard it is
going to be for them should this bill pass, and should this bill be overridden. But I still
want them to know that I support them, I love them. And that doesn't mean that you
all don’t either. It just means that we all have  adifferent of opinion of how we think we
should be doing policy work. And, Chair, that is my comments for today. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you.
Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. So, we're finally at the big vote for today. And
I want you to know that I stand by what I said previously, in that I support the Mayor,
Mayor's vote for to, to, against the moratorium. And I think as it was said in testimony,
and it was, you know, I said, for my first vote, that that the purpose of the bill, which is
it gives a false sense of security to people, as we heard it through many meetings, that
they think that this bill is going to stop the number of visitors that are going to come to
this island. And I don't think that's going to be true.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 165
14.2.3 in the Maui Island Plan talks about that 33 percent justification is aspirational,
it's not policy. And I know that we flip flop between Maui Island Plan, and it is or is not,
you know, policy. But this is aspirational. And I think that a lot of people are thinking
that when we pass this bill, that the number of visitors to the island is going to decrease,
and I don't think that's, that's the truth.
And also, and we also saw the visitor industry when COVID came, and it stopped. And
we, and we had the use of CARES Act money, something that hit me dose to my
farmers and ranchers Upcountry, is that we had to support them so that they didn't
plow under their fields, because there was no visitors. So, it's not only the, the
construction industry, like Tasha mentioned, but it's the layers and layers of other
industries that are related to the visitor industry to be vibrant. And we saw what
happened, right? So, the CARES Act money had to give, I think it was $40,000 to Maui
County Farm Bureau, and so much for Hawaii Farmers, Farmers Union, so that they
could keep their farmers farming by paying them. And then, that money was donated
to the Food Bank. And it was, you know, it was used wisely. But that's an example.
We're not only talking about jobs at hotels, we're talking about restaurants. We're
talking about, you know, how it impacts layers and layers of our economy. So, I don't
want to sound like we're only talking about, you know, only the hotel, or only
construction. But the impact is quite huge. Maui also has a lot of people, or Hawaii
has a lot of people moving away. And I think that it's, you know, if we take an action
like this and the, if the message is that we don't want to have visitors, then that's what
we're going to get. We're going to get people not wanting to come.
So, I stand by my vote. I do not, I do not support this moratorium. And I do support
the working families, the people who are working hard to, you know, send their kids to
school and do all the things that we need to do to have a vibrant community. And I
think that the step of doing a moratorium sends a message out to the greater world of
where we think our, importance of different layers of our economy. So, thank you.
Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. Just, as always, great, great
compelling discussion not only amongst us, but among, from those who testify on this
very sensitive issue. And you know, I, I'm like many of you who are supporting
overriding this veto, is this is really I see it as a pause, you know. To give us a time to,
for all parties, all sides, to come up with the solutions as, as has been mentioned by
those who want this veto. Because, you know, it's still going to be an opportunity for
us to huddle up and put our heads together, and how we want to deal with tourism
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 166
down the road, to change the paradigm so to speak, yeah? And then, how much more
visitor accommodations we're going to need, you know. We, we have limited land.
And certainly, we all support our working families, but the issue is here, what kind of
Maui we leave for future generations of kamaaina. So, we all know that Hawaii in
general, it's a very spiritual place, and that we need to leave something back, you
know, for, for future generations to, to enjoy. And the subject of work, I, I prefer seeing
our hardworking people in the construction industry focus their energies on providing
attainable housing for not only themselves, but others, because it's becoming a real
critical point and travesty. All of our young kamaaina families are moving to the
mainland. I think nowadays you probably find more young kamaaina Hawaiian families
in Arizona, California, and Nevada. I mean, it's almost a travesty. And some have
said that it's going happen. It's already happening. So, that's why we need to pause
and really reassess things.
And I, I'm an optimist. You know, back in the, what was it, the late 80's, early 90's,
when we had the moratorium, Maui County came out okay after that, you know.
Cause, especially nowadays, I mean, look at how much people want to come to Maui
and live here, you know? It's, I guess, a double-edge sword so to speak. And I
remember my first year on the Council, back in 2001, the Maui Visitors Bureau, there's
always this push, let's bring the tourists, we've got to bring the tourists. Well, we
brought em, and this is what we got, you know. So, for good or for better or for worse,
we got this here now.
So, my big thing has always been, or big concern has always been about the brain
drain. And it's not only losing young kamaaina families, we're losing skilled
professionals who make good money and cannot even afford a house. I mean. I'm
hearing stories of people in the healthcare professions, young doctors starting out,
even that is going to be, housing for them is going to be difficult. So, we need to look
at all of this and see what, what kind of future we want for Maui County. Are we going
to have a bigger gap between the haves and the have nots? So, we gotta look at the
bigger picture.
And, and the hotels are still going to maintain themselves. So, I fee! very confidently
about that. I was talking, ironically, to an employee from the Grand Wailea. He said
he's off for the next few weeks. It's really, I guess, they've hit a really slow period. So,
it's a real boom and bust industry. And now, you, you add ail of this with the fact that
now people, a lot of businesses, they're finding  ahard time getting employees, finding
people to work. So, you know, there's jobs around. I mean, people can supplement
their incomes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 167
And also, talking to some construction industry representatives in the past, we don't
have to seem to have enough skilled construction employees in certain areas, so we
got to import labor here, you know. Why not during this time, we focus on developing
our educational programs for our young people to learn specific construction trades,
so that way they're here and we don’t got to bring people in from Honolulu, or from the
mainland. And after they make their money here, they take it back and spend it, spend
it at home, yeah, or wherever they came from. So,  Ithink that's one area we can look
at and focus to working with the industry, the businesses.
And, you know, we all love, love each other, cause we all gotta live with each other.
And I know maybe my, my, my vote now on this to support this override, I may have
lost some friends in the construction industry. But, you know, it is what it is. So, we all
took on this position that we have as elected representatives. You're going to make
friends and you're going to lose friends. But we all decided to take it on and make
some very, very tough decisions and this is one issue that's a tough one. But like I did
in Committee and Council the first and second reading. I'm going to maintain my vote
to support this pause, okay, this pause. And I will support to override the veto. Thank
you. Madam Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Molina.
Anybody else? I'm going to say a few last words and we're going to take the vote
okay? And so, again, I am going to. I'm not changing my vote.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Paltin has her hand up.
CHAIR LEE: Pardon me?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Paltin . . .
CHAIR LEE: Member who?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Member Paltin.
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry. Didn't you speak already? Member Paltin. Sorry, I missed you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, thank you. Second and final. The one, I mean, you know,
I, I, I've been thinking about this a lot, but the one testimony that really put everything
into focus for me was Ms. Feiteira. Because, I mean, you can't, you can't say it
anymore simple than that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 168
When I was growing up on Big Island, there were moratoriums from time to time
because the Hawaii island is bigger than all the rest of the islands combined. And if
not, we would have had not only all the rest of the islands in Hawaii, but probably some
folks from the continent building out Hawaii Island at one time instead of over the
course of many years. And, and it was always controversial. And so, growing up, just,
you know, listening to the news or reading the newspaper, there were moratoriums.
And it, it makes me think of the telescope situation, you know? We build one on Mauna
Kea. We build two, three, up to thirteen more and, and it’ll never be enough. And if
we haven't learned to sustain ourselves by now with the things that tourism promised,
the things that construction promised, that the things that, you know, all of these things
promised, then it is right to stop and refocus.
But the other thing that I wanted to say is, it's not solely on the TIG to come up with all
the solutions to the problems that have been going on for decades. And the
brainstorming on solutions should never end when the TIG ends. So, you know, with
the hours of testimony that we heard today, it's on everybody that's passionate about
this to come up with solutions, and propose solutions, and work together with us on
solutions. Because I don't feel like myself, or my colleagues, or the folks on the TIG
are any much more smarter, well maybe Keani is, I don't know, than the rest of us.
So, you know, I think that at this time it's a right, a right call. And I think that, you know.
I would still like to support the construction industry. And if we look at what's going on
the shoreline, if we look at what we heard about Kahana Sunset and multiply that
around the entire island, there's a lot of work that does need to be done.
Our highway needs to be moved in. You know, we got, I think a $22 million . . . grant
from the Federal government, which is, you know, the max amount is $25 million, and
Maui County got $22 million. And, and we need to move that road because it's, we're
getting barreled on the highway at hightide when there's a south swell, you know.
So, there's a lot of work and, and I would like to see it go to the union workers. And I
would like to see them get paid the prevailing wage, the Davis-Bacon wages. And I
just think that I'd like to say, don't put all your hopes on the TIG. Be a part of the TIG
yourself and propose solutions that focus on a circular sustainable economy.
And, and, you know, don't, don't put it off to someone else, because if the hotel industry
could save us, it would have happened by now. There wouldn't be homelessness. All
our kids in school would be like, you know, everybody would be Kamehameha Schools,
or lolani, or Punahou, you know. So, I think that we need to start doing things a little
bit different, and everybody collaborate, and take this two years to figure it out and
focus on a circular economy. Thanks. Sorry, second or final.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 169
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else want a second and final?
Okay. Member Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I’ll make it quick. I love that, Member
Paltin-
CHAIR LEE: That's what Member Paltin said. That's what everybody said.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well. I wrote mine out earlier so that my first
comment was gonna be quick. So, I, I typed it out as quick as I could so that I could
read it, and not just try to wing it. But I, I, I love that Member Paltin, that if the industry
was gonna save us, it would have done it by now. And we wouldn't have the kind of
houselessness and the school system that we have.
I, I, I wanted to just quickly touch on a couple of things. That, you know, it's the, the
Mayor's Administration's kuleana to enforce the laws, and I have confidence in him. I
think he can do good. That, you know as Member Molina and others have touched
upon there, there is still a lot of work in renovations. But even more so, by having this
clear message of where jobs will be in the future and where there won't be as many
jobs. This helps to direct the UH Maui, for example, on what kind of classes and, and
training workshops, and certificates they should be investing in. And, and then that
way our, you know, our keiki, our opio, can better plan their career paths, and their
educational pursuits.
We heard earlier in a test, testifier talking about media, communications, other online
work that would allow for people to have more remote work situations. We never know
when this is, this pandemic is going to end. We heard earlier from our police, our new
Police Chief, that they have a 25 percent vacancy, so there's a lot of work there that
we need. But yes. Member Molina is completely right. We need to shift the paradigm
and shift our economy.
And then the last thing is just addressing the comments by Mr. Meheula, as far as the
criticism that less than extreme solutions have not been in, investigated. And, and
that's fully inaccurate. We have been, for a long time, investigating and enacting
policies that are less extreme than a moratorium. We are in a crisis, as we all know,
as we heard from our testifiers, as we heard from the community, as we see on social
media. We read it all the time. So, the less than, less than extreme policies that we
have currently passed, you know, obviously, the 2012 Maui Island Plan, you know,
encouraging the tourism industry to do more ecotourism, voluntourism, things that align
and are far more beneficial to our community.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 170
We, we passed legislation to limit the SIR and B&B caps to what's currently operating.
We recently made amendments to and passed the West Maui Community Plan. We've
been working really hard in educating, educating and policies, you know, prevent,
accommodating and preparing for sea level rise. As I mentioned earlier, the SIR
numbers, the TMKs on advertising, and then just recently the MRA ordinance that we
recently passed. And that, that's just a few that  Ijotted down right now. It helped it,
help our litigators with a strong record to argue our case since I'm, I'm sure they, they
would like to sue us, so. But I also have faith in our Corporation Counsel litigation
team, that we have a very strong record, and that this moratorium is needed and
warranted. Mahalo Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Okay, let me just conclude with saying that I am going to vote
against the motion, as I did before, not support Bill 148. As you know, I, I have a
different perspective than most of you. 1 don't blame the tourist industry for not having
housing. I don't blame any industry. If, if there's blame to be laid, it should be right
here on the County Council and the Administration. That's our job.
Okay, so, 1 believe that we need to find a way to work together with all the major
industries, all the major stakeholders. Because what it's going to involve in the future
is to come up with major industries of whether, which probably will require working with
the college, working with various banks and so forth. That's what it's going to take.
It's not going to take the TIG, as Member Paltin kept saying. Because the TIG's focus
is way too narrow, I can tell you that right now. Our, the focus is supposed to be on
solutions, yeah, not blaming or you didn't do this, you didn't. No, we need to start
turning in a positive way and work with the Administration, work with everybody who
can come up with solutions, not reminders of what didn't work. That's not going to help
us.
As you know, I keep talking about diversifying. In order to diversify the economy
effectively, we have to diversify our revenues. And, and nobody, and I mean nobody
has come up with one single idea on how to replace revenues from the visitor industry.
The visitor industry, as you know, generates over 50 percent of our real property
revenues. Our real property revenues are about $385 million, and the visitor industry
contributes over $200 million.
So, with all their faults, we need to be careful on how we scale back on that industry
before we have something to replace it with. And that is my concern. Focus on what
are the solutions, what are the replacements going to be. Not in, only in terms of jobs,
but in terms of revenue. That is very important. Without revenue, and that is the
reason why I think, consultants for the Affordable Housing Plan came up with this
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 171
incredible suggestion, which I thought was like crazy. But I can see why they did it.
That we have to borrow $800 million, because somebody has to pay for the
infrastructure. That's why they did that, you know.
So, we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars that we have to figure out. How do we
generate that? And going forward, I hope all of us can put our minds and, and hearts
together to work on this, because this is, this is where the answer is going to be.
Because without money, you cannot have affordable housing. You cannot have new
roads. You cannot have hardly anything. You have, you have to have money. And
we can't, we can't scale back and reduce the visitor industry to the point of us losing
money before we replace that revenue. So, that, that's where I am.
And I'm hoping all of you will, like, find, find resources, create a network, create
collaboration, so that we all can figure out how are we going to deal with this big gorilla
in front of us. And the reason why we have this problem is because nobody else in the
past could figure it out. So, it's on our lap now. So, we have this opportunity right now
to figure it out And honestly, the reason why it wasn't resolved sooner, because it's
so hard. But I believe that this Council doesn't believe in so hard. Regardless of so
hard, we're going to try anyway.
So, now, are we ready for the vote? Okay, all those in favor of the motion, please raise
your hand and say "aye".
One, two, okay, I see six "ayes". Six "ayes".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA.
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
AYES;
CHAIR LEE: Those against the motion, raise your hand and say "no".
COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA. SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES:
CHAIR LEE: I see three "noes". To make it simple, the "noes" are myself, Member Pro Tern
Kama, and Member Sugimura. So, motion carries.
So, that takes care of that item. And we, and we still have tons of other business to
yes?
(See pages 220 and 221 for the roll call vote.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 172
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Chair, can, can I make another request, point of personal
privilege? Can we take a short break? I know we've been at it since two or three
hours, I think, yeah? . . .
CHAIR LEE: Alright, do you want 10 or 15 minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: I'm okay with 10.
CHAIR LEE: 10?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Give me 15, I’m going to cook dinner real quick-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Ooh, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so that would--
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: -for my daughter.
CHAIR LEE: -whattime? My clock is all wrong. What time would that be, 15 minutes?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I have 6:22.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: 6, 6:35, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: 6:35.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, meeting in recess till 6:35.
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 6:22 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 6:40 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT, EXCEPT COUNCILMEMBER KING,
EXCUSED.)
CHAIR LEE: Will the meeting of January 7, 2022, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let's go on.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with-
CHAIR LEE: Moving forward.
COUNTY CLERK: -county communications.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 173
- MICHELE CHOUTEAU MCLEAN. PLANNING DIRECTOR,NO. 22-10
(dated December 21, 2021)
Transmitting the minutes of the Maui Planning Commission meeting held on
September 28, 2021 relating to a moratorium on new transient accommodations.
CHAIR LEE; Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; I kind of think that's a moot point.
CAN WE FILE IT?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Move to file. Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE; Member Sugimura. We got one. Okay, moved by Member Paltin, seconded
by Member Sugimura, to file, where was I, County Communication 22-10. Any
discussion. No, all those in favor raise your hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNCILMEMBER KING.EXCUSED;
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight "ayes", one "excused": motionCHAIR LEE; Okay, one
carries.
(See pages 222 & 223, and 226 through 228 for the roll call vote.)
CHAIR LEE; Madam Clerk.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 174
COUNTY CLERK; Chair, proceeding with communications for referral. The following county
communications are recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
NO. 22-11 - SCOTT K. TERUYA. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
(dated December 14, 2022)
Transmitting the Director of Finance's Quarterly Report for Fiscal Year July 1, 2021 to
June 30, 2022 as of September 30, 2021 and the Capital Improvement Project report
as of September 30, 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-11 be referred to the Budget,
Finance, and Economic Development Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
NO. 22-12 - LEON BOLOSAN, CHAIR. LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
(dated December 15, 2021)
Transmitting the performance evaluation of the Director of Liquor Control.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-12 be referred to the
Government Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, thank you. Madam Chair.
I MOVE TO FILE COUNTY COMMUNICATION 21-12.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Molina, seconded by Member Sugimura, to file County
Communication 22-12.
Discussion, Member Molina?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Thank you. Madam Chair. In accordance with the Charter
Section 8-13.2, the Liquor Control Commission is tasked with annually reviewing and
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 175
evaluating the performance of the Director of Liquor Control and submitting a report to
the Mayor and Council.
And per the letter from the Chair of the Liquor Control Commission, which was dated
December 15 of 2021, the annual review and evaluation was conducted at a special
meeting on December 14, 2021. Director Silva was evaluated for the period of
November 1, 2020, to December 1, 2021, receiving all satisfactory marks in all of the
categories including reliability and achieving goals, relationships with others, job
knowledge, problem solving, decision making, planning, organizing, and several other
things.
So. I really want to thank Director Silva for, I guess, establishing a new culture so to
speak in the Liquor Department. So, much mahalo to Director Silva. And ask for the
Council's support of filing this communication. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motion, say "aye", raise
your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
All "ayes". One, two. three, four, eight "ayes", one "excused"; motion carries. Excused
is Member King.
(See pages 224 & 225 and 228 & 229 for the roll call vote.)
CHAIR LEE; Madam Chair/‘s/cj.
- KARLA H. PETERS, DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATIONNO. 22-13
(dated December 9, 2021)
Transmitting the Department of Parks and Recreation's Beach Parks Vulnerability and
Adaptation Study Phase I - Executive Summary November 2021 prepared by Tetra
Tech, Inc.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-13 be referred to the Human
Concerns and Parks Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 176
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLY
(dated December 6, 2021)
NO. 22-14
Transmitting the Department of Water Supply's Monthly Source and Groundwater Use
Reports for the month ending November 2021.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-14 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
- JEFFREY T. PEARSON, DIRECTOR OF WATER SUPPLYNO. 22-15
(dated December 20, 2021)
Transmitting the State of Hawaii Commission on Water Resource Management water
use reports for October 2021 for all registered well reporters in the County of Maui.
The recommended action is that County Communication No. 22-15 be referred to the
Infrastructure and Transportation Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Any objections, Members, to the referrals as read by the Clerk, except for
CC 22-12, which we voted on?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: So ordered.
Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: Moving forward to item, agenda item K. ,Committee Reports.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
COMMITTEE REPORT
PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE LAND USE COMMITTEE:NO. 22-1
Recommending the following:
(2022), entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING1. That Bill
ORDINANCE 4295 AND GRANTING MAUI DRAGON FRUIT FARM LLC A
CONDITIONAL PERMIT TO OPERATE A GIFT SHOP AND CONDUCT
1
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 177
SPECIAL EVENTS AT 833 PUNAKEA LOOP. LAHAINA, MAUI, HAWAi‘1," be
PASSED ON FIRST READING and be ORDERED TO PRINT; and
2. That County Communication 18-34, from the Planning Director, be FILED.
CHAIR LEE: Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you. Chair.
I  MOVE TO ADOPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
COMMITTEE REPORT 22-1.
CHAIR LEE: Second somebody.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Moved by Member Paltin, seconded by Member Sinenci, to approve the
recommendation in Committee Report 22-1.
Discussion, Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Chair. Your Committee previously reported on this
matter through Committee 21-85 at its meeting of September 17, 2021. The Council
postponed consideration of CR 21-85, pending an investigation into the use of
recreational vehicles on the property as housing for farmworkers.
At its meeting of November 5, 2021, the Council recommitted Planning and Sustainable
Land Use Committee Report 21-85 for further discussion on this matter.
By correspondence dated November 17, 2021, the owners of Maui Dragon Fruit
Farm LLC, requested an extension to their Conditional Permit specifically to phase out
special wedding events after the completion of the eleven events currently on their
calendar, with the last wedding scheduled for July 12, 2022. Your Committee
prohibited any rescheduling or substitution of event should one of the eleven events
cancel.
Your Committee further discussed concerns of excessive noise and operation of
activities such as the aquaball and zipline, especially after hours. To allay these
concerns, your Committee limited the hours of operation for aquaball and zipline
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 178
activities and mandated that cameras with visual and audio live streaming capability
be installed on the property. Drums and amplified sound were also prohibited.
Your Committee also supported allowing the Planning Director authority to issue
notices of violation and cease operations for events or activities if a violation of terms
of the Conditional Permit is found.
Following its discussion with the Department and the owners of Maui Dragon Fruit
Farm LLC, your Committee revised the proposed bill to add conditions to the permit for
the property as previously mentioned. Your Committee voted 9-0 to recommend
passage of the revised proposed bill on first reading and filing of the communication. I
respectfully ask for Members support of my motion.
CHAIR LEE: Members, anymore discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Paltin. I just
wanted to follow up on, I, I didn't hear if you know whether the audio and visual
surveillance was installed?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: No, I don't know. It was a condition. I think they needed to
install by second and final reading.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
compliance.
And if they weren't compliant, then that would be non-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. Do you know who is going to follow up with
them on that? Is it the Department?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN:
Department.
My guess would be Ms. Willenbrink of the Planning
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, so she'll let us know by second and final
reading if they're in compliance?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I hope so.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sounds good. Mahalo, Member Paltin. I support the
motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 179
(Councilmember King returned to the meeting at 6;49 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anymore discussion?
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Hi. Sorry I'm late. Can you, can you just reiterate what the motion
is on the floor. I assume we're on the Committee. Report 21, 22-1 ?
CHAIR LEE: Yes. Member Palin, repeat the motion?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Again? You guys.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, to, to pass, to pass the recommendations in report 22-1.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Okay, anyway, I just, I also, because I'm home now. I, I
couldn't stay there anymore, cause things kept cutting off and it was all dark over there
at the, at the whole complex. So, it wasn't really safe walking around to go to the
restroom. But I just wanted to let everyone know I'm in my home in the, the room, by
myself.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. We believe you. Ready to vote? All those in favor of the motion, raise
your hand and say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries. Hallelujah. This is one of the longest
running conditional use permits in the world, yeah.
Madam Clerk.
The following resolutions areCOUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding with resolutions,
recommended for referral to the following Committees as noted:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 180
RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-3
AMENDING RESOLUTION 17-159 TO EXTEND
THE DEADLINE TO COMMENCE
CONSTRUCTION OF THE 100 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HANA AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-3 be referred to the Affordable Housing
Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Who's this? Member Johnson? Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Consideration for Resolutions 22-3 to 22-
5, starting with Resolution 22-3.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-3 WAS ADOPTED LATER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 181 through 184 for discussion and
action, and pages 229 through 231 for the roll call vote.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-4
URGING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
STATE OF HAWAI‘1 BOARD OF LAND AND NATURAL
RESOURCES TO PROVIDE A LONG-TERM,
RELIABLE, AND AFFORDABLE SOURCE OF WATER
FOR COUNTY DOMESTIC AND AGRICULTURAL USE
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-4 be referred to the Infrastructure and
Agriculture and Public Trust Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-4 WAS AMENDED AND ADOPTED
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 184 through 211 for
discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 181
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-5
URGING THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO
PERMANENTLY REMOVE AND RELOCATE THE
BULK FUEL STORAGE FACILITY
UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS LOCATED
AT KAPUKAKT (RED HILL, 0‘AHU)
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-5 be referred to the Government
Relations, Ethics, and Transparency Committee.
(RESOLUTION NO. 22-5 WAS ADOPTED U\TER IN THE
MEETING. See pages 212 through 219 for discussion and
action.)
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member Sinenci.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-3
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
MOVE, MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE COUNCIL FOR
RESOLUTION 22-3.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Second.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 182
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Sugimura, to waive the Rules
of the Council.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair. Approval of my motion by a two-thirds vote of
the entire membership of the Council will enable us to consider the proposed resolution
tonight.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. No.
CHAIR LEE: Who's talking? Go ahead, Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Did I get a, okay. Oh, that was just for the, the waiver, yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, the waiver? I'm sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. No, no more discussion.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: All those in favor, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair.
I MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-3.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 183
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Second.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Johnson, to adopt Resolution
22-3.
Discussion? Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. You can imagine our surprise when we
found out that Kawaipapa 201H Project in Hana had expired. But considering the
recent pandemic shutdowns over these past months and the ongoing engineering
issues as stated by Mr. Hoeffken, we can see where all that time went. I think everyone
is in support of this project, and everyone knows that the need for affordable housing
in Hana and across this pai'aina. The Kawaipapa 201H Project is critical to our Hana
community, and so we ask for your continued support of this reso by extending the
deadline to December 29, 2023. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Any more discussion?
Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Famous words. I'll be quick. But I just
want to, I do want to just point out, we had in my Affordable Housing Committee, all of
the tiers in the priority projects. And this is the only one for Hana. So, this is very
important for our folks out in Hana, so ! rise in full support of this resolution. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Thank you. And I did call member not member, but Deputy Director
Munsell to check if the Department was in support of this. And they are, just to let you
know.
Alright, anymore discussion? All those in favor of the motion, raise your hand and say
"aye".
(Councilmember Molina was excused from the meeting at 6:54 p.m.)
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 184
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA.
CHAIR LEE: Nine "ayes", zero "noes"; motion carries.
Now, wait a minute. Member Molina, did you say "aye"? I, I think you froze
momentarily.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I think he's frozen.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you know what, eight, eight "ayes", one "excused": motion carries. We
we have to move on, okay.
Next. Madam Clerk, next.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-4
COUNTY CLERK: That would be Councilmember Sinenci for 22-4.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Councilmember Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Mahalo, Chair.
MOVE TO, ON, [ MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-4.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
SECOND.
(Councilmember Molina returned to the meeting at 6:56 p.m.)
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Member Sinenci. Oh, there's Mr. Molina. Oh okay, he's back again.
Moved by Member Sinenci, seconded by Member Rawlins-Fernandez, to adopt
Resolution 22-4.
Discussion, Member Sinenci.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 185
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And this item doesn't need to be, to waive
Rule 7.G. because it's just urging, it's an urging resolution and doesn't have the force
and effect of law.
Members, at the November 16, APT Committee meeting on East Maui water, a
representative of DLNR, Mr. Ian Horikawa [sic], stated that the State does not want to
see any municipal entity, such as the County of Maui compete with the private interests
of the lease. And that the County would not be required to go through the public auction
process as mandated by HRS 171, should the County so choose to, but instead, could
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the State.
The Department of Hawaiian Homes also supports the counties acquiring the licenses.
They recognize the governmental obligation to uphold the public trust doctrine and the
legal obligations outlined in the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.
The Department of Land and Natural Resources also stated that they are in a place
they never have been before, and that they are at ground zero in developing a lease
process. One of the reasons DLNR is having such a difficult time obtaining an
appraisal of the water rights is that the public trust doctrine rests upon the notion that
water is to be used for the public good. When a private for-profit entity acquires the
right to water, water then becomes an economic commodity in stark contrast to a public
good. With the leases managed by municipal, by a municipal public entity like
ourselves . . . congruity is solved.
An intergovernmental agreement with the State will also provide for equitable water
rates for all users, and not just for County of Maui users. These equitable water rates
will provide parity among farmers. It is unrealistic to expect full island sustainability
and a robust local farming industry when an international company is receiving heavily
subsidized water rates, and local farmers are forced to pay much more.
So, Members, it is imperative that we take this action now to protect the County's
access to water over the next 30 years. I think if we wait, we lose this opportunity for
a long time, and a lot can, can change in those 30 years.
I believe Member Rawlins-Fernandez may have some amendments for you to consider
tonight. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. I wholeheartedly support Member
Sinenci's motion and thank him so much for introducing the resolution. 1, I do have
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 186
some amendments, but I, I'm, I'm unable to share screen. I didn't send it to the Clerk
or do like an Amendment Summary Form, so I was just going to share screen. Oh
okay, thank you. Okay, Chair, can I share screen?
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: They've given me the ability to. Sorry, my computer
is not happy. Okay, okay, here we go. Okay. Okay. There, there's a couple
nonsubstantive changes. There was a period instead of a comma here, so I'm not
going to make a motion for that. Alright, let's see, this is page 4. The second whereas
clause on page 4, I move to, I, I'll do them one at a time, Chair. Is it big enough for you
to read?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Should I make it bigger?
CHAIR LEE: No.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's fine.
CHAIR LEE: It's helpful to have it in red. It's helpful to have it in red.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay. So, I'll make the, the first.
I MOVE TO AMEND, TO ADD A WHEREAS CLAUSE "ON
JANUARY 6, 2022, THE BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY
ADVISED THE COUNCIL TO PURSUE THE WATER LEASES;
AND
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Do you want, do you want me to do all three? I can
do all three. Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, do all three.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 187
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Alright.
OKAY, SO INCLUDED IN MY MOTION, TO INSERT. OR TO
ADD A WHEREAS CU\USE, "DLNR WOULD SAVE MONEY ON
NOT DEVELOPING AND CONDUCTING A NOVEL WATER
APPRAISAL PROCESS TO EXECUTE THE PUBLIC AUCTION.
IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 171-58(C), HAWAII
REVISED STATUTES; AND"
"WHEREAS, AT THE REGULAR NOVEMBER 16, 2021
AGRICULTURE AND PUBLIC TRUST COMMITTEE MEETING,
THE SPECIAL PROJECTS COORDINATOR OF THE DLNR
LAND DIVISION, URGED THE COUNCIL TO CONTACT THEM
IMMEDIATELY TO PURSUE THE LONG-TERM WATER
LEASES: AND"
CHAIR LEE: That doesn't sound official. Urge the Council to contact them immediately to
pursue. Well, I don't know, how does everybody else feel? I, you know, my objection
to this whole thing is, is this leading us down the trail of purchasing the East Maui
Irrigation System. I, I don't, like, when I read the resolution, i thought it was urging the
Mayor to enter into an intergovernmental agreement. And I thought that was, you
know, okay with me, acceptable to me.
But is there more to this. Member Sinenci? Is there an, you know, another agenda
besides what, what's on the surface?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. Mr. Hirokawa did not say anything about
the purchase.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: The only thing he mentioned to us was an intergovernmental
agreement with the State of Hawaii.
CHAIR LEE: So, that, that's all this resolution tries to achieve, right?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That's, that's what was expressed to us in the--
CHAIRLEE: Oh, okay. Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: -in that presentation.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 188
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright.
Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, I, I like the, I like the amendments but I'm
not, is that, is that what we need to indicate that we are, we have interest? Because,
what I heard earlier was that we have to indicate interest and I would expect maybe
there might be an interest statement in the "BE IT RESOLVED". Is there another
amendment coming? That's a question for Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, there, there are more
amendments. I was going to take them all separately, but I can introduce them
altogether, if the Members would like. And then I would like to speak to the motion.
Chair, would you like me to-
CHAIR LEE: Well, she asked you a specific question.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah. I, and I, and  Ianswered. I said I do have more
amendments. Would you like me to introduce them now?
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. Alright
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, cause they, they kind of fit together, right? Okay. That
that way it would make more sense I think.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You're going to screen share again?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yes. Mahalo for your question.
CHAIR LEE: Who proposed this reso? Was it Mr. Sinenci or you, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 189
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
OKAY, SO THE SECOND BE IT RESOLVED CU\USE:
2. THAT IT DIRECTS THE COUNCIL CHAIR TO TRANSMIT
CORRESPONDENCE EXPRESSING INTEREST IN
PURSUING THE LONG-TERM WATER LEASES FOR THE
COUNTY OF MAUI TO SUZANNE D. CASE, CHAIRPERSON,
BOARD OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES, WITH
COPIES TO RUSSELL Y. TSUJI, ADMINISTRATOR, LAND
DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL
RESOURCES. STATE OF HAWAII. AND IAN HIROKAWA,
SPECIAL PROJECTS COORDINATOR, LAND DIVISION,
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES, BY
JANUARY 21, 2022.
AND THAT IT EXPRESSES ITS CONCERNS WITH ISSUING
THESE LONG-TERM LEASES TO PRIVATE FOR-PROFIT
ENTITIES; AND
THERE’S AN AMENDMENT IN 4. THAT IT SUPPORTS
INSTEAD OF AGREES WITH THE BOARD OF WATER
SUPPLY'S TEMPORARY INVESTIGATIVE GROUP
RECOMMENDATIONS: AND
IN 5. TO ADD CHAIRPERSON, WILLIAM J. AILA,
CHAIRPERSON, DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME U\NDS,
STATE OF HAWAII; RUSSEL Y. TSUJI, ADMINISTRATOR,
LAND DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL
RESOURCES, STATE OF HAWAII; AND IAN HIROKAWA,
SPECIAL PROJECTS COORDINATOR, LAND DIVISION,
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
STATE OF HAWAII.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I’ll second the motion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, Member Sinenci did.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, I didn’t see that, sorry.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's, so it's one motion. That’ll be my one motion.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 190
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Mr. Sinenci, I do have a question. Is there any reason why this didn't go
to Committee, so we could have a full discussion on it?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I think there was the time sensitivity, as far as, because what
Mr. Hirokawa, Hirokawa had expressed to us was that these decisions will be made in,
in probably the next couple weeks here.
And I see that Member Rawlins-Fernandez wanted to add to that.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Member Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yes, and I concur with Member
Sinenci, and I have the verbatim minutes that I,  Iwanted to, to share. So, in that
meeting, and I think Member King was not, she was absent for that meeting, so, or
excused, sorry. So, I asked, before going through the appraisal process and the
auction process, which I assume would take a lot of time and money, do you folks
consider government agencies before opening up the bid to private entities?
And Mr. Hirokawa responded, "Yeah. I mean, I would say this. I think if and, I mean,
I know if there is an interest within the County to expand the scope of the involvement
in this, I think they would reach out to us as soon as, because again, I don't think having
the County as a competing bidder is really in anybody's best interest, you know, where
public and private is competing. I think we want to resolve it one way or the other
beforehand. So, I hope that, that answers your question. But we could, if the County
says well, I want the system, then I think we could. We'd have to say, okay, wait, let's
at least hold and address this, you know, first, before we rush into it or, you know, bring
it to public auction".
And then, I asked before going through all of this process like EIS process, are letters
sent to the agencies to provide comment before public testimony and all of that, so I
was just wondering about the process. . . . some agencies states their interest
beforehand. And Mr. Hirokawa said, and this is the last part, "Yeah, what we do is we
move forward on the lease or the public auction, we would try to find some means to
give the public more opportunity to provide comment, or at least review the material
other than okay, we'll put it on the board agenda, and one week later the board hears
the item. If anything, we would probably say okay, well, we intend to take this on like
on a board meeting date, publicize it, and let the public know, review it longer. And
then it would be the best way for them to testify and so, but at, at least it'll give the
public a chance not to rush, and they'll have some days to provide input, basically."
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 191
CHAIR LEE: So, which public? Cause our public is not getting the opportunity to provide
input if this is passed tonight. If this is passed tonight, our public would not have had
an opportunity to participate in the discussion, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Well, we, we heard from a lot of the public during
testimony today. This was duly noticed, as required by Sunshine Law. And then, and
that's . . . today.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but it did not have the benefit of the discussion, the open discussion of a
Committee meeting.
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, it, so the recommendation, and you'll see
testimony in support of this action by the Board of Water Supply, who also had a public
meeting, who also, as they say in their testimony, received a tremendous amount of
online testimony and written testimony.
CHAIR LEE: So-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: We also-
CHAIR LEE: --you, you are confirming that this has nothing to do with purchasing the system
right?
ViCE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: This is about the water leases.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, because I heard you say something to the effect about buying something.
Buying. I heard her use the word buying.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: This is probably me. I was amiss, miss. I, I probably said that in
one of my questions about it. But it isn't about, but just, so I'm going to, what, so my
assessment of a, and correct me if I'm wrong. Member Sinenci or Member Rawlins-
Fernandez, is that ail we're doing is expressing our interest in having the lease, urging
the Mayor to move fon/vard on it. But in giving, and then giving the public a chance to
comment before they move into creating a lease bid process. So, because that was
where they were going and they were, and now they're saying, but if the County's
interested, we don't have to go through that. We don't have to make you bid against a
private entity, so we would just move forward with it.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 192
But this, this, this resolution, it doesn't mean we're moving forward. We're urging the
Mayor to move forward. And we're, we're expressing our interest as a Council in
moving forward. But it's, it doesn't mean that at some point they couldn't go back to
deciding they want to go through the lease bid process. I mean, at some point if, if. if
nothing happened on this, I think they could, they still could decide that. But what we're
doing, if we pass this. I believe, is we're saying that we agree that the County should
take this over, to take the lease over. And we're urging the Mayor to move forward
with it and we're expressing our interest to put  apause on the BLNR's bid process. Is
that correct? Okay.
CHAIR LEE: But before I go to you. Member Sinenci, Member Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; So, so the amendment, then, that Keani is proposing, it
talks about the Council sending a letter to Suzanne Case and, you know, whatever that
says. So, it's taking a step fonward in more than the intergovernmental agreement.
So, I think we just inserted ourselves into this discussion deeper than I thought that
this resolution proposed.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Thank you. Chair. Yeah, just to answer Member Sugimura,
there was no offer or anything about the sale of the system. I guess that's just, that's
part of the EMI. or the A&B, or the Mahi Pono. This was about the valuation. That the
State has to come up with the valuation of water, and they can't even find an appraiser
here, or even an appraiser on the mainland that could appraise the, the public trust
part of, of water. And so, they're still looking for an appraiser. And so, but before, so
before they even open it up to, to bid to anybody who wants the lease, they, they need
to put, they need to appraise the water. And so, that's why Mr. Hirokawa is saying that,
well, us as a public entity would have a chance,  arare chance that we found out that
we could apply for, for the lease as a public entity.
And in. Member Sugimura, I think in anticipation in some of the build back better, better
funding that may be coming down, we as a County,  Ibelieve could be eligible for some
of those funding should we, should we need to, need additional funding for whatever
the, should we get the lease. But we're also following Congressional Representative
Kai Kahele, who also wrote a letter to the Mayor, as well as to, to us. expressing his
recommendations that the County should be, also be a lease, apply for the lease for
East Maui water.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Oh, interesting. So, on January 20, Brian Schatz is going
to be speaking at my Committee. All of you are invited. Thank you very much, Tamara,
switched dates with me, so it's a Thursday. And, and Senator Schatz is going to talk
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 193
about, so maybe we can ask these questions, cause now we're spending money we
don't have and hoping for. So, it hasn't come yet. Interesting.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so again, again. Member Sinenci, when were you notified of all of this
information?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: When we invited, at the November 16, APT meeting, when
we invited Mr. Ian Horikawa [sic] to do a presentation. And then--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so, so, in the meantime, you, you wouldn't, you didn't have time to
schedule this item in December?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: And, and then we were invited to do a presentation at the last
Board of Water Supply meeting, where we had presented Mr. Horikawa's [sic]
presentation to the, the Board of Water Supply.
CHAIR LEE: No, but how come you didn't do the presentation for us in your Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: He, he did.
CHAIR LEE: He did?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: In November? In November?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: November 16.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, November 16?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, so then, so, no, but I'm saying that how come we didn't work on this
resolution in your Committee in December?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: I guess cause of the, because it wasn't a Council decision,
but more to urge the, the Administration to let the DLNR know of our interests into an
intergovernmental agreement with the State--
CHAIR LEE: Okay, cause--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: So it wouldn't be the Council, but the-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 194
CHAIR LEE: You know, because I, you know, it, it got kind of complicated with all these
amendments too. What seemed like a simple resolution started to generate a bunch
of questions. And I wondered why, why you thought, you know, it was sufficient just
to pass it on the floor today?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; Yeah, and I think. Chair, if I may? You know some of the
discussions about the Water Use Development Plan, particularly the Haiku Well
strategy, you know, that hasn't, that hasn't come up as how much the Haiku Well
strategy and the WUDP would cost the County. And so, for us, you know, looking and,
and you speaking towards diversifying our economy, that was, there were some other
factors that, you know, helped to promote this resolution tonight.
CHAIR LEE; Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. There's some singing in the background on
somebody's video. Sorry, but i got distracted. So. no, I, I, I support the amendments
because I thinkthat's what folks were telling us, the testifiers were saying. And it wasn't
strong enough and it didn't send that message that we were trying to send that we are
interested. Cause the point of this, to me, is to stop BLNR from going ahead with this
bidding process so that the County would have to bid against a private entity with very
deep pockets.
You know this is a public trust, and so we shouldn't have to, you know, we're the, we're
the public's trustees, basically. We shouldn't have to bid against the pension fund that
wants this. So, that's why I, well, that's the. to me, these amendments do that that part
of it. They strengthen it. Because before it was just urging the Mayor to do something,
it wasn't saying yes, we're interested in this lease, which is what, what they were asking
for from us. I'm assuming.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, I, I understand that, I understand that. But. you know, you realize
that with regard to water and the public trust, there are the top four priorities, and one
is domestic. So, our use of domestic water is above commercial use of water. So, I'm
not sure how we're competing with other people, you know, in that sense.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Well, because they would put, because they would make a
process, a bid process where we would have to bid on it. And we'd be bidding against
the pension fund from Canada. So, if we go through with this resolution, then we're
sending the message that we are interested, please don't go, don't put that bid process
together because we're interested. And we should be the entity that has the lease on
this water source, this water delivery system.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 195
CHAIR LEE: For, for the amount of water that we need for our domestic use, right? Not
anything over and above that?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: For, for, for use on Maui. I mean, you know, whatever, whatever
whatever it's being used for now. I'm assuming, you know.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: We're talking about-
CHAIR LEE: Because the water that that we bring the east, we use surface water, supplies
Pukalani and Makawao and other places, yeah? 25 to 35, 25 to 30,000 people are
reliant on that water. So, I'm assuming that's the same water we're talking about.
We're taking care of the domestic use of our residents that we have currently on the
system.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, so we can, we're the ones that will set the rates. And you
know, we can give fair rates. We don't have to give, we won't be able to, I mean,
hopefully we won't be able to do what is happening in some of these private systems.
The Wailuku Water System has different rates for almost every farmer on that one
stretch, you know. So, yeah, it would be a fair system, I think.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. So, I'm just. I just wanted to verify that. We're, we're not trying to buy
more than what we need, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: It's a, it's a lease, so we're not buying anything. We're, we're
asking for the lease.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then, so I think. Member Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, then
Member Sugimura. Question?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Yeah, mahalo. So, the reason why
I read the verbatim minutes is to show, to remind all of us that we did have this
discussion. And that this, you know, the Members in the APT at that time had made
their intentions known that this is something that is good for the County and for our
residents.
And so. we have a Board of Water Supply. And one of their, their, you know,
responsibilities, duties, is to advise and provide comments to the Administration,
Council. And that, you know, in testimony on December 16, 2021, the Board of Water
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 196
Supply received extensive testimony from the, the public, as well as presentations from
the Maui County Managing Director, Sandy Baz and Maui County Council Agriculture
and Public Trust Committee Chair Shane Sinenci.
Following the presentations and testimony and per the agenda, the Board of Water
Supply discussed recommended immediate actions on page 81, and the
recommended near-term actions page 82 from the Board of Water Supply TIG report,
which we receive, which was approved unanimously by the Board of Water Supply on
December 19, 2019. So, the, the Board subsequently approved, by unanimous vote,
submitting this letter of support to the Mayor and to the Maui County Council,
encouraging the County of Maui to pursue the feasibility of acquiring these leases for
the Nahiku, Keanae, Honomanu, and Huelo lease license areas through an
intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Land and Natural Resources, as
recommended in our 2019 TIG report.
To this effect, the Board recommends contacting DLNR as soon as possible to
determine the next steps for us doing. And that's what Member Sinenci is doing now.
We're, we’re trying to work as quickly as possible to make the intentions known of this
Council and of the Board of Water Supply, and the members of our public. And we,
we also received testimony from Na Moku. And you heard from Mr. Kekiwi. He, he's
the one who read it. Na Moku Aupuni o Ko'olau Hui, who are reluctant because of
their past history with the County going against them. But, as you heard from another
testifier, would rather have a BB shot in her eye, which is us taking the leases, then
having a shotgun to her head. So, you know, we heard all the--
CHAIR LEE: Can I ask, can I ask what the position of the Director of Water Supply was or
is?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Member Sinenci, do you remember? 1,1,1 don't recall
at this time.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: They also sent a letter to the, to the Mayor. I don't know if
they sent it to you.
CHAIR LEE: Jeff Pearson sent a letter saying what?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, no, excuse me. Chair. The Board of Water Supply,
CHAIR LEE: Oh.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Not, not the Department.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 197
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, and so, Managing-
CHAIR LEE: So, what is the, what is the Department’s, what is the Department's position on
this?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I guess the Managing Director has been the one
that's kind of taking control of this situation and the Water Director has been following
his lead.
CHAIR LEE: Member Kama, did you have your hand up?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes, I did, Chair. Sorry, Lena's watching TV. So, so I just want
to make sure i understand what we're doing. Basically, we're giving direct, not
direction, but we're urging the Mayor to enter into an agreement with BLNR, right?
And in that agreement, hopefully, work out a lease so that we can have some say in
about how water is being used or who gets to use it?
And then the second thing is, we're urging the Mayor to do what the, the TIG has asked
about getting a lease from our Board of Water Supply for the Nahiku and Hana areas.
Is that clear? Is that right? Is that where we're at?
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Yeah. Thank you. Member Kama. Again, it's entering into
an intergovernmental, we're urging, this is again, this doesn't have the force of law. It's
just urging the Mayor that this is the time to go ahead and express our interest in
becoming a lessee for the East Maui water before the auction goes to private, a private
company and let alone a foreign one at that. Us as public officials have that right to
uphold the public trust. And so, they are looking at us to and, and our, the constituents
you heard today that we, as public officials, should be upholding the public trust. They
feel that a private entity doesn't have that.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yes. Correct.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; They're not held to uphold the public trust.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay. So, that that I'm clear about, the direction in which we're
going.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 198
The second question I had was, you talked earlier about that we don't have an
appraisal for the valuation of the public trust doctrine. What did you mean by that?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: That was what Mr. Horikawa [sic] mentioned. I can look at
the notes. But Member Rawlins-Fernandez wanted to answer that.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Pro Temp Kama, for the
question. So, in that APT meeting that we had, Mr. Hirokawa let us know that this is
something that they've never done before, even though it's in State Statute about doing
this water lease auction. They've never done it.
And as Member Sinenci shared in his opening comments, that this would be a totally
new process that that they, they don't even have an appraiser to do this, so that they
know how much they should be expecting if they were to do an auction. So, the reason
that there's an urgency for this and why, you know, DHHL, you heard from Mr. Scheuer
and written testimony from Chair Aila that they support this, is because we need to
move expeditiously to save the State money from investing into this whole new process
hiring experts, trying to find an appraiser to, to develop this brand new, you know,
auction process that they're going to be doing. There, there isn't an appraisal right now
because we would be entering into an intergovernmental agreement. So, we wouldn't
be paying, you know, for, for that water. It, it would be a different process for us from,
as government to government, and not government to private for-profit entity. Mahalo
CHAIR LEE: Okay, but-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: However, since there is no process in existence-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Correct.
CHAIR LEE: -would it hold up? Would it hold up us being able to get the lease because
there is no process? And you know the State, when they don't have a process, how
long it takes for them to invent?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 199
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Right. So that, that's what I said to Pro Temp Kama,
is that they wouldn't go through the auction process. They wouldn't do the, this water
appraisal process because-
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; It's government to government.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; They would only do that if they were going to go
through with this whole water lease auction to private for-profit entities. And since we
are a government entity, that we, we wouldn't go through that process. So, we’re trying
to save them time and money and resources from avoiding this costly process. So,
that we, we'd also be saving the taxpayer money, you know, cause that's who would
be paying for this whole new process. And, you know, Mr. Hirokawa, you know,
explained how it, you know, that it's, it's such  achallenge forthem to have to go through
this. And if we are interested in the water leases, it would, it would be such a relief.
. . . wouldn't have to do this, this auction process.
CHAIR LEE; Well, you know, it's, it's very unfortunate that we're having this, this discussion
without the basic resources, you know, Mr. Horikawa [sic], whatever his name is and
other people from DLNR, the Director of Water, you know, Sandy Baz from
Management? I mean, that's, that's how we normally have discussions, with all the
resource people in place, and then we ask them. But because we're asking you, who
spoke to somebody else, you know what I'm saying?  Imean you don't work for DLNR.
What you know is what somebody told you, right?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Right. We spoke to them in the Committee meeting
about this.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, but we didn't--
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; That, that we talked about-
CHAIR LEE; -talk about the actual resolution today. We didn't talk about that. Today's
resolution was not discussed in Committee, right? That's what I'm saying.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; The resolution itself, but the intention for the Council
to and the County to get the water leases was something that was discussed.
CHAIR LEE; I know, but we didn't take a vote. So,  Idon't think that was the focus. They
gave us a presentation on a range of things, right? I don't remember Mr. Sinenci
saying, and, and then I will prepare a resolution for everybody to, you know, vote on.
That's what I'm saying. We may have had a general presentation, but it's not as
specific as it is tonight is what I'm saying. Right? No? Can you react to what?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 200
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, so I, I don't remember if Member Sinenci
expressed his intention to write this resolution, but we do have a motion on the floor.
A motion to amend the main motion and then the main motion.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, but we haven't heard from Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, no, I was just going to add if this discussion is going to
continue to go on, perhaps we could consider, I mean, the next round of Committee
meetings come up, 1 think my GREAT Committee meets on January 18. And I don't
know if Mr. Sinenci would consider, you know, we, we send this item to Committee and
then we can further discuss it. I guess from what I'm gathering here, it's like maybe,
you know, he said this, she said that and there's some uncertainty from some Members
about this. So, I don't know. I just throw that out as a consideration, otherwise we could
be here all night talking about this. So, but anyway, for, I know it seemed pretty simple
at the start, you know?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, it did. It did seem simple.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: But then it got complicated, you know, after, after a while.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. Anyway, just my thoughts. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the, the more you added to it, the more questions, you know, were raised.
Anybody have a other solution?
Okay, Member Sugimura, then Member Paltin. Oh, Member Sugimura, you want to
yield to Member Paltin--
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, Member Paltin-
CHAIR LEE; -cause she's jumping out of her clothes, waving her hand.
Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you, Member Sugimura.  Igot a solution. Okay. How
about we try this process where the motion is made to amend, and then everybody
talks two times, and then we call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: That's not a solution. We do that all the time.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 201
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Committee work.
CHAIR LEE: You know this is different. We're trying to resolve something sort of on the fly.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But I thought that's how it works, like.
CHAIR LEE: No, in Committee, in Committee, we have resource people, you know. It, it's
not part of a Council meeting and we don't have 25 items to go and, you know, the
pressure of that.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought it was kind of simple where you'd say, like, everybody
in favor, raise your hand and say "aye". And everybody not in favor, raise your hand
and say "no".
CHAIR LEE: You know, the fact that people are hesitating doesn't mean they won't support
it. In other words, when people hesitate, that means they have questions that need to
be resolved. That's what it is. Don't you want people to, when somebody supports
you, don't you want them to have an informed, make an informed decision, or just say
yes because you asked?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: The second one.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, you're getting punchy already. Let's go back to this side. Any? Okay.
You know, I don't mind supporting this with reservations. But I, I wish, I wish we had
more information. I wish we had, I wish I had Jeff to ask, you know, a question to and,
and other people.
Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. And the only reason why we pursued it,
because at that November 16 meeting, there were Councilmembers that proposed that
the County could be the potential leaseholder. And so, that's why we brought it up.
But for tonight's vote. Chair, it's just, it's up to the Mayor. We're just urging the Mayor.
We are kind of passing on to the pass, we're just passing on the baton to the Mayor to
act. That's all, that's all the Council has before us tonight.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: It's not us making all those decisions. And he, he can go ask
his, his Department heads, get their advice, or whatever. But we cannot force him,
we're just urging him tonight to, to consider this. Chair. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 202
CHAIR LEE; Okay, that sounds simple. And then, and then there's no sort of hidden agenda
like there's a step two to this, right?
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: No.
CHAIR LEE: Right. Okay. Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Just real quick. You know 1, I read
the verbatim minutes for a reason, so that it's not, you know, it, it's verbatim. I, I, it’s
not I am saying that someone else said something. It's their words, exactly. And so,
the intergovernmental agreement, you know, must be entered into by, by the Mayor,
and then we approve. So, it's us together. So, the water leases, like, we, we cannot
take the water leases, you know, without the, the Mayor's support.
What this would also do, though, is it would give that courtesy to our, you know, fellow
government agency that this is moving forward. And at the Board of Water Supply
meeting, Managing Director Baz did say that he support an agreement of some kind.
So, I think we're moving in that direction. And the courtesy for us to inform BLNR,
DLNR so that they stop with in, investing all these resources, all this time.
CHAIR LEE: Is it? Is it absolutely necessary to include all of your amendments?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Well, that-
CHAiR LEE; I have a feeling it will pass a lot easier if you didn't have all these amendments.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Right. That's because we're just going to put it all
into the Mayor's hands.
CHAIR LEE: Right.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; And we, the Council, have more power than that.
We also have more, we want to be considerate of our fellow agencies, who are
scrambling to try to figure out how to make this auction process happen, happen with
the appraisal and all of that. And so, if we, you know, let them know right away, I think
that's very considerate of us, and we're saving taxpayer dollars, which we all are
concerned about. So, with, with that, it helps to make it clear because that's what we
heard from testimony today, about making it more clear, about making that notice and
that intent more clear. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 203
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Yeah, I, I'm actually more comfortable
with these amendments cause I think it has the meaning that we intended for a
resolution to have. Because then, the intent of this resolution is to pause BLNR from
going ahead with the, a bid, which would put us in a position of having to bid against a
private entity that has very deep pockets. And you know, I, I asked a couple people,
that's why I was asking testifiers what they thought about the resolution. And that, and
you know, what we heard was the resolution as it was didn't actually make that
statement.
So, the, the amendments that, that Keani is proposing put that statement into the
resolution, so there's no question that, you know. Otherwise, if they get it and they go
what do you, you still, you told us that you, you know, you just reiterated what we said,
but you didn't tell us that you actually do, you know, are interested in this, in the lease
on this water system. We didn't put those words in there, then it might not have the
same effect. That's my feeling.
CHAIR LEE; Okay. You mean--
COUNCILMEMBER KING: --but I, I like it better with the amendments.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so urging the Mayor to enter into an agreement is not good enough?
COUNCILMEMBER KING; No, because it doesn't tell BLNR that we are, you know, at least
the Council is interested. And what we heard from the former Chair of the Board of
Land and, the Board of Water Supply was that they need to know that either the Council
or the Mayor is interested in order to stop the process that, that they were going to go
through with. And, you know, this is just a first step. You know, as, as, as Member
Kama said, we can't, we can't force the Mayor to do anything. We're just urging him
to, to, to take, to take this and then take it to the next step. But we have to take the
first step because he hasn't done that yet. You know, he was urged by Representative
Kahele to take that first step, and he didn't do it. So, we're kind of helping along by
taking that first step.
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci, is that your hand up? No? Member Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; Yeah, thank you. So, when does this bid process suppose to
start? Cause I get, obviously, there seems to be some time sensitivity issues with this.
When did, I guess, Ms. Case say it was going to start if they don't hear from us, or
whether they hear from us or not? Any dates given?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 204
CHAIR LEE: Anybody want to answer that?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Mahalo, Member Molina, for your
question. So, what we were told in APT by Mr. Hirokawa is that before they start the
auction process, they have to conduct an appraisal of the water leases. And the, that's
never been done. And so, it, they don't, they don't even have a water appraiser. So,
there's-
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: So, we . . . time ... I guess.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No. Like, so, I mean, if we're going to waste taxpayer
dollars, then I guess we can, you know, draw it out. But I think as a, as a courtesy so
that they're not investing all this taxpayer dollars into a process for no reason, because
if we're going to say like we want, you know the County would like to have these leases,
then they would have invested all this money into hiring an expert to do this appraisal
of the water leases so that it can conduct the auction. And all of this costs a lot of time
and money. And so, we're trying to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars by stopping
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: . . . some money, yeah? ... vet now.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Okay. I get it.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo. Member Molina. Mahalo, Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Alright. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Any more questions. Members.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, just to respond to-
CHAIR LEE: Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you, Chair. Member Molina, that it started when the
Board accepted the final EIS for the leases. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. And then, Member Paltin.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 205
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Okay, how's about we do the thing where we vote on it and
then we send the subject matter to a Committee? Would that be a good solution?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Mike that.
CHAIR LEE: Why are you shaking your head, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. I, I don't know if any, anyone watched
my 9-minute video. I don't blame you if you didn't. But so, subject matter referrals are
not part of the process anymore. Only . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Oh, I mean, the matter is under the, the issue is under the
subject matter jurisdiction of either GREAT or APT, so they could take it up in
Committee for further discussion.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, as a Rule, a Rule 7.B, presentation?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: There you go. That's what it is.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah, I support that.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Hallelujah.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Problems today, solutions tomorrow.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, so, so we would, we would vote on passing
the reso, resolution today and we can further discuss it when it, in Committee later.
Sounds good.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. You know, those kinds of, well those kinds of agreements are, should
be a lot more detailed. And, you know, it doesn't talk, it talks about access to water,
but it doesn't talk about delivery of water, you know. So, all of these questions pop up
in my mind.
Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I was just going to say that.  Ilike Member Paltin's idea. But I
also understand, oh shoot. Sorry. But I also understand the need to have this done
and get it off, and have the discussion in Committee, and i like that. I mean. I'm just
trying to work with everybody, so we can all work together to come to some resolution.
Thank you. Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 206
CHAIR LEE: Okay, anybody else? Oh, yes, David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES DAVID RAATZ: Good evening.
CHAIR LEE; I hope you're there for good, are you there for good news?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Well, we have some advice for the body.
Thank you. Thank you, Chair Lee. Good evening, Chair and Members. We would
advise a roll cal! vote to be taken on this motion. HRS Section 92-3.7, which actually
just took a first, took effect on January 1, it's the updated version of the State Sunshine
Law that governs open meetings, says when you're having an online meeting such as
this, all votes shall be conducted by roll call unless unanimous.
CHAIR LEE: Uh oh, we didn't do that for the veto.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Well, thank, thank you, Chair. If I may?
We, we've been consulting with our staff attorneys and the Department of Corporation
Counsel, and there's a provision under Roberts Rules of Order that allows the body to
go back and verify the vote you've already taken by roll call. So, it wouldn't be an
opportunity to change votes or anything like that. It would just be for transparency and
to comply with the State law, going back through the process to do an actual roll, roll
call on both Resolution 22-3 and the override of Bill 148. So, we, the body can go back
to those items after this pending matter is resolved. Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Member Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, just a question for Mr. Raatz. Was the 22-3 unanimous
or?
CHAIR LEE: What do you?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you, Chair. We, we have it recorded
and, and the County Clerk can verify if necessary that it was 8-0, with one excused,
Councilmember Molina wasn't available for that vote. And if it’s not 9-0, it arguably is
not quote unanimous. So, thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the, the only vote I recall that wasn't unanimous was the veto vote.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: And . . . Member King was in commute as well.
‘ CHAIR LEE: Yeah, but I said she was excused.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 207
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh okay.
CHAIR LEE: So, she wasn't available to vote.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: But it's a not nine-
CHAIR LEE: Huh?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I thought he said it had to be 9-0?
CHAIR LEE: He said it had to be unanimous. That's what I heard him say. Because
because-
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Then if it's not 9-0, then it's not unanimous.
CHAIR LEE: It's unanimous of the people present. For somebody who was not-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: He said unanimous .  ..
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Molina was not available for one vote.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: He said unanimous is 9-0.
CHAIR LEE: No, but then, but then, but then Sinenci asked about, or I asked but what about
the vote with Molina? And he didn't, he didn't say we had to take that one over again.
Only the veto vote.
David, see what you started? David, come back on please. Which, why don't you just
tell us which votes, so we don't be arguing over who was where and, you know, so
forth.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: Thank you. Chair. Again, the Clerk's Office
can verify. But we would suggest out of an abundance of caution, any vote that was
not 9-0, you go back and take the time to do a roll call vote to verify and, and record
the vote, votes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: So that would include Resolution 22-3.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 208
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So. Madam Clerk, please have your staff check on that, on the votes
that were taken, so that we can retake votes that were not unanimous, meaning 9-0.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: We need roll call votes on those? You know? You know already?
COUNTY CLERK: No. I know some, but I don't know all of them, so I'm going to consult with
them real quick.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. But in the meantime, we'll be working on this one.
Member. Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh, oh sorry. Madam Chair.  Iwas going to suggest maybe
we take a break, give Ms. Kaohu some time to gather all that data. And then, come
back and further, you know, discuss this item. I don't know, for consideration.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, Members you want a break? You know, you know, I, I don't know about
that Mr. Molina. Because the next time we take a break, the staff needs one too.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah, that's true.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: So, let's finish this up. Okay, are, are there any questions? Are you ready to
vote? Are there any questions?
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Call for the question.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the amendments, I think we haven't voted on that.
Ail those in favor of the amendments.
David. Yes, David?
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COUNCIL SERVICES: I'm sorry to interrupt. But 1 would suggest
you ask the Clerk to call each of the nine Councilmembers. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 209
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Roll call, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I thought it was going to be unanimous, but maybe not now. Cause alright, let's
see. No, but she's busy. Madam Clerk.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Is it going to be unanimous?
CHAIR LEE: What?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Are, are there any opposition? Cause if there isn't:
then we can-
CHAIR LEE: I didn't think there was.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: -not. Okay, let's call for unanimous. Well, let, let's
see, is there any opposition?
CHAIR LEE: I don't see any opposition. Okay, so, all those in favor-
COUNTY CLERK: is this for 22-4?
DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK JAMES KRUEGER: Yeah, the ASF.
CHAIR LEE: What?
COUNTY CLERK: Is this for 22-4?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Amendment. Amendment.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, amendment. Oh, amendment. Okay, sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the amendments. Alright, all those in favor of the amendment, raise your
hand and say "aye".
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
CHAIR LEE: Those opposed say "no".
NOES: NONE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 210
CHAIR LEE; Okay, it's unanimous. Nine "ayes". Anybody against? Zero "noes". Motion
carries.
Now, the, the main motion as amended. Okay, all those in favor, raise your hand, say
"aye". Raise your hand, say "aye". Are we not going to be unanimous? We're going
to have to take this vote again.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sugimura . . .
CHAIR LEE: Okay, it's not unanimous. Okay, all those in favor of the motion as amended
raise your hand and say "aye". I mean. I'm sorry. Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
QOUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
I really want it to be discussed in Committee. So, sorry, no.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 211
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCi, VICE-
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES: COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA.
COUNTY CLERK: We have eight "ayes", one "no". Motion carries.
CHAIR LEE; Motion carries. Okay.
So, what about sending this item back to Committee for further discussion?
Member Sinenci?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Thank you. Chair. I believe we already have an item in our
APT Committee that we can bring the subject matter up.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, wonderful. Wonderful.
Yes, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. It, and it could also be the Rule 7
presentations of subject matter item.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. Okay, very good.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thank you. Thank you, Shane.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now. Madam Clerk?
COUNTY CLERK; Yes. Did you want to go back and do the redo before we proceed on?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, let's, let's, let's do it Yeah.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 212
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Is it possible to have--
CHAIR LEE; Okay, if you have it ready. You have the whole list ready?
COUNTY CLERK: I don't have the whole list ready yet. I just have, I was, didn't want to leave
the meeting, but I have to go consult with staff. But it's not a long list.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, then let's proceed, then. Proceed.
COUNTY CLERK: With the other items?
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, the other items.
COUNTY CLERK; Or redo?
CHAIR LEE; No, with the other items. Cause they're working on the list, so we can do it all
one time.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Okay.
RESOLUTION
NO. 22-6
REFERRING TO THE PLANNING COMMISSIONS
A PROPOSED BILL TO AMEND TITLE 19, MAUI
COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO WIRELESS
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
The recommended action is that Resolution No. 22-6 be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
RESOLUTION NO. 22-5
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl; Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Oh, sorry. Consideration for Resolution 22-5.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 213
COUNTY CLERK: Oh, right. Kala mai.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay. We skipped over that. Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: I already read that one up.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: So, Councilmember Sinenci can go right into it.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
MOVE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION 22-5.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, any discussion?
Member Paltin. Oh, okay. Oh, sorry, Mr. Sinenci, you didn't say anything, so.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No. go ahead.
CHAIR LEE: Go ahead. Mr. Sinenci, go first.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: No. I was, I wasn't sure if people wanted to, the reso to be
read, but I, i'll go to Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . .
CHAIR LEE: She's giving it back to you.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: That sounds like a good idea.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Oh, okay. Can we request that the resolution be read by the
Clerk please?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 214
CHAIR LEE: He's not there.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Oh sorry.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk, can we have you back for  aminute? Oh, you know what?
Mr. Sinenci, why don't you read, why don't you read the resolution?
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Okay, sure. Yeah, I can do that.
CHAIR LEE: So, she can work on that stuff.
COUNCILMEMBERSINENCI: Okay. Thank you, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, teamwork. Teamwork.
(The reso was read in its entirety by Councilmember Sinenci.)
CHAIR LEE: Thank you, Mr. Clerk.
Madam Clerk, are you back yet?
You have a question. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, no, I had a discussion.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now, we have to wait for her now. Madam Clerk? I guess we're going to
have to take a ten-minute break.
COUNTY CLERK: Hi, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We have no Clerk. Oh.
COUNTY CLERK: I'm here.
CHAIR LEE: Madam Clerk. Can you stay with us, or you have to get back?
COUNTY CLERK: No, I, I got it all worked out.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, discussion? Discussion, Member Sinenci. Any more discussion
anybody? Okay, so. Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Are, are you ready for my discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 215
CHAIR LEE; Yes. I hope it's not long.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Well, I mean, this is a crime of historic proportion against
humanity. And, you know, it, it’s not exactly surprising. We're still cleaning up
Kahoolawe. Despite what the military had said, depleted uranium has been found on
Hawaii Island, regardless of what they claim is going on at Pohakuloa. It's, it's pretty
much the military's legacy here in Hawaii. And, you know, so many people say, like,
we need the military to make us safer. But why was Pearl Harbor bombed in 1941,
December?? Because of the military presence in Hawaii.
So, you know, we don't, I don't see this, I mean, what, we need to just call it what it
really is, is a war crime. I mean, just last month, they commissioned the USS Daniel
Inouye. The cost was $1.5 billion. But they cannot afford to clean up all of the history
of messes that they have left over here? Unexploded ordnances still being found in
Makena, Molokini, all over the islands.
And, and, I mean, I know it's late, but, but the serious of this. I just, you know, I cannot
express my gratitude enough to Member Sinenci for bringing this forward because
when I saw it on the agenda I was, I was so happy, that at least we're doing what we
can do. And, and I want to make my vote in full support in memory of a colleague of
Member Sinenci, Member Rawlins-Fernandez, and Member Johnson, and myself,
Asami Kobayashi, who, in our cohort, compared Red Hill to our, to be our Dakota
Access Pipeline event. And at the time, I didn't understand the seriousness of it. And
I thought it didn't affect me because I live on Maui and I'm from Hawaii Island. But now
that what she had said was going to happen has happened, I fully realize. And, and I
wish I had done more sooner. Although, it's difficult to stand up against such a military
presence for what is right. I just want to express my extreme gratitude to Member
Sinenci, and full support for this resolution. And hope we pass it right away.
CHAIR LEE; Anybody else?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez. You're muted.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah, sorry. My computer, like I said, my computer
is, is very fussy and wants me to restart. So, when we take a break that is what I will
be doing. I echo all the sentiments of Member Paltin, and also extend my deep
gratitude to Member Sinenci for introducing this very important resolution. Stand in
solidarity with our lahui with our sister-island and all the people on Oahu. The military
is supposed to protect us from the atrocity that they committed against us. I'll just add
that.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 216
I  DO HAVE A PROPOSED AMENDMENT.
NONSUBSTANTIVE.
"WHEREAS, KAPUKAKT, 0‘AHU, ON AND WHICH THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA INSTALLED AND CONTINUES
TO OCCUPY THE SITE WITH RED HILL BULK FUEL
STORAGE FACILITY". I MOVE TO MAKE THAT AMENDMENT.
IT’S IT’S
I’LL PUT IT IN THE CHAT. IT’S
CHAIR LEE; Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; To the first "WHEREAS".
CHAIR LEE: And seconded by--
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCl:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Seconded by Member Sinenci.
So, discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Kapukakl, so the, the 'WHEREAS"
clause as it, it's written right now is just the Kapukakl, known today as Red Hill. It's
not, it's the erasure of our wahi inoa, the continued erasure. So, it’s just correcting it
so that, you know, our place names don’t continue to be erased in that way. Mahalo,
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else? Discussion? Alright, ready for the vote? Let’s, let’s take roll call
cause I hate to do these votes twice. Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: Chair, is this for the amendment? Aye.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, yeah, that's right. That’s right. Yeah, for the amendment first and then the
then the main motion.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 217
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: SO MUCH AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE LOA.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING.
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA. VICE
CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
COUNTY CLERK: That's nine "ayes" and zero "noes'zero "excused.
CHAIR LEE: Motion carries.
Okay, the main motion as amended.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 218
COUNTY CLERK: Main motion.
CHAIR LEE; Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: EVEN MORE AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE NUI LOA.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 219
AYES; COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR
LEE.
NOES: NONE.
COUNTY CLERK: That's nine "ayes" and zero "noes"--
CHAIR LEE: Zero "noes", motion carries.
COUNTY CLERK: --no "excused".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, now--
COUNTY CLERK: As amended.
CHAIR LEE; -we're now on Resolution 22-6.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, did you want me to read it again?
CHAIR LEE: I'm sorry, you read it already? Okay.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah. Before.
CHAIR LEE: So, then this will be Member Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I'll take it. My, I just make a request that we don't get three
hours of testimony, so we can work on it. But, you know, if we got to, we got to.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, so this is going to be referred to your Committee?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE; No objections?
MEMBERS VOICED NO OBJECTION.
CHAIR LEE: Is it unanimous or do we need roll, okay, alright. Very good. Ordinances.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, did you want to go back to the roll call, re-dos?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7. 2022
Page 220
CHAIR LEE; Okay, let's go back to the roll call. How many, how many votes? Three?
COUNTY CLERK: Four.
CHAIR LEE: Four, okay.
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-9
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 22-9, which is the moratorium veto.
CHAIR LEE: Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
CHAIR LEE: Aye.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI; This, this was for the~
CHAIR LEE: The veto. The veto vote.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: The override. Aye.
COUNTY CLERK: Okay. Hold on just a second. I'm going to restate the motion. Okay, the
motion for County Communication 22-9 is to override the veto of Bill No. 148 (2021),
Draft 1, entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NEW TRANSIENT
ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI".
CHAIR LEE: Okay, roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: And, and to file the communication.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 221
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: NO.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: NO.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KING, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, AND VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-
FERNANDEZ.
NOES; COUNCILMEMBERS KAMA, SUGIMURA, AND
CHAIR LEE.
COUNTY CLERK: So, that's six "ayes" and three "noes'none "excused"; motion carries.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 222
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-10
COUNTY CLERK: Okay, the next one is County Communication 22-10. And it was a vote to
file, file the minutes of the Maui Planning Commission meeting from September 28,
2021, relating to the moratorium on new transient accommodations. And that was the
vote that Kelly was excused cause she was in transit. Councilmember King was
excused . . . transit.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I'm sorry, Kathy. Can you read that again? I'm not sure you read
the exact motion.
CHAIR LEE: You're kidding.
COUNTY CLERK: The motion was to file County Communication 22-10, from the Planning
Director, transmitting the minutes of the Maui Planning Commission meeting held on
September 28, 2021, relating to a moratorium on new transient accommodations.
Cause it was after the fact.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You said that Member King was not there for the
vote.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: So, she can't vote.
COUNTY CLERK: So, you can't vote. Okay.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: So, you got to go to the next Councilmember.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 223
COUNTY CLERK: SHE WOULD BE EXCUSED.
Okay.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER KING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 224
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-12
COUNTY CLERK; Okay, the next one is County Communication 22-12. Motion is to file
County Communication 22-12, Chair, from the Chair of the Liquor Control Commission,
transmitting the performance evaluation of the Director of Liquor Control.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA; AYE.
Councilmember Kelly Takaya King.COUNTY CLERK;
EXCUSED.
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK:
YES.COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
AYE. Can you hear me?VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 225
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Okay, cause I don't see me on Akaku anymore.
COUNTY CLERK; Okay. Can we ask for a recess please?
CHAIR LEE: How many, five minutes? Ten minutes?
COUNTY CLERK: Five minutes.
CHAIR LEE: Okay, what's, what's the issue? Connection?
COUNTY CLERK: The connection?
CHAIR LEE: Connection?
COUNTY CLERK: There's no visual.
CHAIR LEE: I, I see it on Akaku. Is that what you're talking about?
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Rawlins. We're not seeing anybody for, for
Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez.
CHAIR LEE: Members, are you folks having, besides Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez
are you having connection problems?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: I. I~
COUNTY CLERK; Yeah, there's several Members.
CHAIR LEE: Mr. Johnson?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; Chair, all I have is blue screens on everybody.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Me as well.
CHAIR LEE: Let's take a break for 10 minutes. Let's make it 8:35. 8:35. Meeting in recess.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 226
(THE MEETING WAS RECESSED BY THE CHAIR AT 8;23 P.M., AND WAS RECONVENED
AT 8:37 P.M., WITH ALL MEMBERS PRESENT.)
CHAIR LEE; Will the January 7, Maui County Council regular meeting, please reconvene.
Madam Clerk, let's go through this again.
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-10
COUNTY CLERK: County Communication 22-10, from the Planning Director. The motion is
to file, cause it's after the fact of the veto override for the moratorium. And it's
transmitting the minutes of the Maui Planning Commission meeting held on
September 28, 2021, relating to a moratorium on new transient accommodation.
CHAIR LEE: Roll call.
COUNTY CLERK: Roll call.
Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Mike Molina.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Oh. that's the one-
CHAIR LEE; Oh, wait, wait. She didn't vote.
COUNTY CLERK: I’m sorry. That's the one you were excused, Kelly.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Moratorium, no, I voted on that. You're talking about the veto
override?
COUNTY CLERK; No, the minutes-
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 227
CHAIR LEE; The minutes.
COUNTY CLERK: --that came from the Planning Commission-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh.
COUNTY CLERK; -regarding the moratorium.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
OKAY, SO. EXCUSED.COUNTY CLERK:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: AYE.
CHAIR LEE; The rest were "ayes", just for everybody's information.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: AYE.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
COUNTY CLERK: Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawiins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 228
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
one "excused", no "noes". Motion to file--COUNTY CLERK: That’s eight "ayes'
CHAIR LEE: Carries.
COUNTY CLERK: -carries.
CHAIR LEE: So, how many more do we have to do?
COUNTY CLERK; That was CC 22-10. We have to do 22-12, which is the Liquor evaluation.
CHAIR LEE: But was someone excused?
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
COUNTY COMMUNICATION NO. 22-12
COUNTY CLERK: Yes, that was Kelly, also.
So, the motion for County Communication 22-12 is to file the transmittal of performance
evaluation of the Director of Liquor Control.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
Oh, I'm sorry, did you respond?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Councilmember Kelly King.COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 229
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; YES.
COUNTY CLERK; Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK; And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. MOLINA,
PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
EXCUSED; COUNCILMEMBER KING.
COUNTY CLERK; That's eight "ayes", one "excused", and no "noes"; motion carries to file.
ROLL CALL VOTE ON
RESOLUTION NO. 22-3
CHAIR LEE; Okay, and then Reso 22-3, the Hana Affordable Housing.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 230
CHAIR LEE; Who was missing?
COUNTY CLERK: Mike was missing on that one.
That motion was to amend, adopt "AMENDING RESOLUTION 17-159 TO EXTEND
THE DEADLINE TO COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION OF THE 100 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HANA AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT".
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK:
EXCUSED.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Kelly King.
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER KING:
Councilmember Gabe Johnson.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; AYE.
Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.COUNTY CLERK:
AYE.COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.COUNTY CLERK;
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK:
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 231
And Council Chair Alice L. Lee.COUNTY CLERK:
CHAIR LEE: AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON. KAMA, KING,
PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA, VICE-CHAIR
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND CHAIR LEE.
AYES:
NOES: NONE.
EXCUSED: COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA.
COUNTY CLERK: That’s eight "ayes", one "excused", no "noes"; motion carries to adopt the
Reso. We're good.
CHAIR LEE: Resume. Ordinances, yeah.
COUNTY CLERK: Ordinances? Okay. Alrighty, moving forward to ordinances.
ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 150 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022,
EMERGENCY FUND (DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER EVENT)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 151 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER EVENT)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 232
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 152 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
EMERGENCY FUND (DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
DECEMBER SEVERE WEATHER EVENT)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 153 (2021^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING APPENDIX A
OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO PART II, SPECIAL PURPOSE REVENUES -
SCHEDULE OF REVOLVING/SPECIAL FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022.
OPEN SPACE. NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES, AND
SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND (KE AO HALM)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 154 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE,
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL RESOURCES, CULTURAL RESOURCES
AND SCENIC VIEWS PRESERVATION FUND (KE AO HALM)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 155 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
SANITATION, BOND FUND,
CENTRAL MAUI LANDFILL ENTRANCE FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 233
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 156 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
CENTRAL MAUI LANDFILL ENTRANCE FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO.^^I57__(2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT - CENTRAL
MAUI LANDFILL ENTRANCE FACILITY TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 158 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 159 (2021)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS,
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
CENTRAL MAUI TRANSIT HUB
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 234
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 160 (2021^
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - CENTRAL
MAUI TRANSIT HUB)
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 150 THROUGH 160 ON SECOND AND
FINAL READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCiLMEMBER SUGIMURA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
move, pass Bill, Bills 150 through 160 on second and, was that first reading? First
pass-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Second reading.
CHAIR LEE: Second and final reading.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Second and final.
CHAIR LEE: Discussion?
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Bills 150 through 152 will fund the
Department of Public Works, emergency repair projects to, necessitated by the
December Severe Weather Event.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 235
Bills 153 and 154 grants Ke Ao Hali'i up to $669,300 for the acquisition of the TMKs in
ahupua'a ofMokae, Hana.
Bills 155 through 157 is for the Central Maui Landfill Entrance Facility Traffic
Improvements in the amount of $484,650.
And Bills 158 through 160 is for the Central Maui Transit Hub in the amount of
$248,108. . . . Members . . . support of these items. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: We lost you for the last couple words.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I ask for the Members continued support. Mahalo
Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Alright. Any more discussion? If not, all those in favor of the motions, please
say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE: It's unanimous; nine "ayes", zero "noes". Motion carries.
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, proceeding-
CHAIR LEE: Madam Chair.
COUNTY CLERK: -with bills-
CHAIRLEE: Madam Clerk.
COUNTY CLERK: -for referral. The following bills are recommended for referral to the
following Committees as noted:
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 236
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 2 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE REPEALING SUBSECTION 3.48.305(C),
MAUI COUNTY CODE, RELATING TO CLASSIFICATION OF REAL PROPERTY
The recommended action is that Bill No. 2 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 3 f2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
WAILUKU-KAHULUl COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
PARKS AND RECREATION, GENERAL FUND,
KEPANIWAI HERITAGE GARDENS IMPROVEMENTS;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 3 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 4 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
KEPANIWAI HERITAGE GARDENS IMPROVEMENTS
The recommended action is that Bill No. 4 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 237
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 5 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
COUNTYWIDE, GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, BOND FUND,
COUNTYWIDE FACILITIES MAINTENANCE PROGRAM;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 5 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 5 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 241 through 247 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 6 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
(COUNTYWIDE FACILITIES MAINTENANCE PROGRAM,
COUNTYWIDE TRAFFIC AND SAFETY PROGRAM)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 6 (2022) be referred to the Budget. Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(BILL NO. 6 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
U\TER IN THE MEETING. See pages 241 through 247 for
discussion and action.)
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 238
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 7 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5219,
BILL NO. 48 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS - COUNTYWIDE FACILITIES
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 7 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING(BILL NO.
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 241 through 247 for
discussion and action.)
7
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 8 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO ESTIMATED REVENUES;
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
PAIA-HAIKU COMMUNITY PLAN AREA,
PARKS AND RECREATION, BOND FUND,
HAIKU PARK RESTROOM;
TOTAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS;
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS (OPERATING AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 8 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 9 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 239
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX C - CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION,
HAIKU PARK RESTROOM
The recommended action is that Bill No. 9 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 10 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5217,
BILL NO. 46 (2021), RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL
OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF MAUI
ISSUANCE, SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS
(DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION - HAIKU PARK
RESTROOM)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 10 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 11 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX A, PART I.
GRANTS AND RESTRICTED USE REVENUES - SCHEDULE OF GRANTS AND
RESTRICTED USE REVENUES BY DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS,
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
(STATE OF HAWAII - HOMEOWNER ASSISTANCE FUND)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 11 (2022) be referred to the Budget, Finance, and
Economic Development Committee.
(2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING(BILL NO.
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 248 through 252 for
discussion and action.)
11
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 240
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 12 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET FOR THE COUNTY OF MAUI
AS IT PERTAINS TO APPENDIX D - CONDITIONAL LANGUAGE
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND HUMAN CONCERNS,
(STATE OF HAWAII - HOMEOWNER ASSISTANCE FUND)
The recommended action is that Bill No. 12 (2022) be referred to the Budget
Economic Development Committee.
Finance, and
(BILL NO. 12 (2022) WAS PASSED ON FIRST READING
LATER IN THE MEETING. See pages 248 through 252 for
discussion and action.)
ORDINANCE NO.
BILL NO. 13 (2022)
A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.40.080,
MAUI COUNTY CODE, TO AMEND CONDITIONS, AMENDMENTS,
MODIFICATIONS OF CONDITIONAL PERMITS FOR THE ISLAND OF MOLOKA‘1
The recommended action is that Bill No. 13 (2022) be referred to the Planning and
Sustainable Land Use Committee.
CHAIR LEE: Members or Vice-Chair, Vice-Chair, you, a few minutes ago passed 11 bills on
second and final reading. And you just picked up another 11.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Woohoo.
CHAIR LEE: No rest for the weary. Okay, you had your hand up.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did.
CHAIR LEE: Vice-Chair.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 241
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NOS. 5 (2022), 6 (2022). AND 7 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Consideration on Bills 5, 6, and 7.
And they're all to, together one item.
OKAY, I MOVE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENT OF
COMMITTEE REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 5
THROUGH 7, IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE
RULES OF THE COUNCIL
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA;
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Ra\wlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Sugimura, to
waive the Rules of the Council.
Discussion, Vice-Chair.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. These two projects, one is for, is
repairs to Kalana O Maui, and I can give more detail then. And that's 300,000 and
800,000 for the construction of the project that we previously approved for design and
permitting, which is the conference room in the Old Courthouse. So, I'll, but I'll give
more details if Members, if the majority of Members move forward on the waiver.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Any more discussion? Roll call.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You don't think it'll be unanimous. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: I don't know. I hate to do these votes two and three times. Just simpler, roll
call.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Do you want to see if there's any opposition?
CHAIR LEE: No, I just want to see where the Clerk went.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Is there any opposition?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 242
COUNTY CLERK: Right here.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, we're not supposed to do that.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Please.
CHAIR LEE; You're not supposed to do that. I don't look good in orange, okay. ...to jail.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; It's not, it's not  acrime. It's just checking-
CHAIRLEE; Sure it is.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; -in opposition. Please.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Okay, so the motion passes. All those in favor, say "aye", say "aye", just
formality.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, motion passes.
Okay, now, call on you again, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 5 THROUGH 7 ON FIRST READING.
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI:
SECOND.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by
Member Sinenci, to move Bills 5, 6, and 7 on first reading.
Discussion?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 243
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Mahalo, Chair. Members, these proposed bills would
amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget bill, the Appendix C bill, and the Bond
Authorization bill to add funding and a project description of the Department of Public
Works, Countywide Facilities Maintenance Program in the amount of 800,000.
500,000 of the funding will be used for the construction phase of the conversion of the
basement of the Old Courthouse Building into a conference room. The remaining
300,000 will be used for structural repairs and the replacement of a panel siding along
the east and south building faces of the Kalana O Maui Building.
We did have Budget Director Yoshimura on the line. Oh, she is there again. Oh, my,
you are commitment, I swear. Okay, so Budget Director Michele Yoshimura is on the
line if Members have questions.
CHAIR LEE; Members, do you have questions?
Yes, Member Paltin?
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I just was concerned, is the flooding going to be an issue, or is
that what the money is for, to address it for the underneath of the building?
CHAIR LEE: Director Yoshimura.
BUDGET DIRECTOR MICHELE YOSHIMURA: Chair, thank you. Councilmember Paltin
yeah, it will address the flooding as well.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Oh, okay. Like drainage or something?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yeah. So, they'll, they'll fix that so that it's usable space.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Okay, great. That's a good idea.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. Chair. So Director, how big is the conference
$800,000, how big is the conference room and does that include all the furniture?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Sorn/, 500, that, I misspoke.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 244
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: It's 500. It's 800 total.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: 500 for the conference room and 300 for what?
CHAIR LEE: The ... for the building.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It's $500,000 for the conference room.
CHAIR LEE: Right?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Sorry, Chair. It's $500,000 for the conference room and it's $300,000
to fix the sidings of this Kalana 0 Maui Building,
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, for Kalana O Maui?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: What was that about the Old Courthouse?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Oh, the Old Courthouse is the $500,000. They're taking the
basement, which floods, they're going to address that issue and they're going to
convert the basement into a conference room for the Prosecutor's Office.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh, for the Prosecutor's Office? Oh, okay. And do you know
how big it is? How many people it's going to seat?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Off-hand, no, I don't know how big it is. Sorry.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay, but that includes all the furniture and everything, too?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: It's actually just for the construction.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Oh.
CHAIR LEE: So, anyway, the, if we vote "aye" on this, they said they'll let us use the
conference room for ballroom dancing, if we, if we choose. Come on guys. Ready to
vote?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 245
COUNCILMEMBER KING: ... let us use it for a conference room?
CHAIR LEE; Ready?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Chair?
CHAIR LEE: Yes, Member Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Yeah, so where's the ADA access for that, for that building?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: That building?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: The Courthouse.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; I’m not sure if there's a ramp in the front area of the building.
CHAIR LEE: . . . I think.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay.
CHAIR LEE; Can we, can we just, maybe. Director, you can check on it and let Member
Kama know, let us all know?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Okay, 1 will.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. Alright, any more questions? Roll call.
Councilmember Shane Sinenci.COUNTY CLERK:
COUNCILMEMBER SINENCI: AYE.
Councilmember Mike Molina.COUNTY CLERK;
CHAIR LEE: Member Molina?
COUNTY CLERK: I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 246
COUNTY CLERK; Councilmember Kelly T. King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: AYE, WITH RESERVATIONS.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Gabe Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON; AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: AYE.
COUNTY CLERK: Councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: You're muted.
CHAIR LEE; She's thinking.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: No, no, she said "aye", but her, her, her lips said
"aye", but she, her audio wasn't on. She has to unmute.
CHAIR LEE; Oh, okay. Well, she turned away. I thought you were thinking.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I unmuted myself.
AYE.
Did you get it?
CHAIR LEE; Yes.
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah.
Council Pro Temp Tasha Kama.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: YES.
Council Vice-Chair Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez.
COUNTY CLERK;
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: AYE.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 247
COUNTY CLERK; Council Chair Alice L. Lee.
CHAIR LEE; AYE.
COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI. SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, AND
CHAIR LEE.
AYES;
NOES; NONE.
COUNTY CLERK; Nine "ayes", no "noes", no "excused": motion carries.
CHAIR LEE; Okay, Vice-Chair, are you going to do anything else? Vice-Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Yeah. One more.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Chair?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Oh.
CHAIR LEE; Director?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ; Chair?
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Chair, to answer Councilmember Kama's question, it's off of Wells
Street, in the back of the Building.
CHAIR LEE; That's what I thought, yeah.
BUDGET DIRECTOR; Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA; Okay, thank you.
CHAIR LEE; Vice-Chair?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 248
DISCUSSION AND ACTION RELATING TO
BILL NOS. 11 (2022) AND 12 (2022)
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Bills 11 and 12.
I  MOVE TO WAIVE REQUIREMENT OF COMMITTEE
REFERRAL AND REPORT FOR BILLS 11 AND 12, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 7.G. OF THE RULES OF THE
COUNCIL.
CHAIR LEE; Second?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Johnson, to
waive the Rules of the Council, bill, on Bill 11 and 12.
Vice-Chair?
The urgency on this, the timeVICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair,
sensitivity is it's a Homeowner Assistance Fund. So, let's get this done.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. All those in favor of the waiver, say "aye", raise your hand.
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA, KING
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCI, SUGIMURA
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ,
CHAIR LEE.
AND
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes": motion carries.CHAIR LEE: Ooh, nine "ayes". Nine "ayes". All "ayes'
Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair.
I MOVE TO PASS BILLS 11 AND 12 ON FIRST READING.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 249
CHAIR LEE: Second?
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA:
SECOND.
CHAIR LEE: Moved by Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, seconded by Member Kama, to pass
Bills 11 and 12 on second, on first reading.
Discussion, Vice-Chair Rawlins-Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Mahalo, Chair. Members, these proposed bills would
amend the Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Appendix A, Part I, Appendix D, to add an
appropriation entitled "State of Hawaii - Homeowner Assistance Fund", in the amount
of $8,060,550, along with conditional language limiting salaries and premium pay to
one limited term appointment.
These funds are to be provided to eligible entities for the purpose of preventing
homeowner mortgage delinquencies, defaults, forfeitures, loss of utility, utilities or
home energy services, and replacements [sic] of homeowners experiencing financial
hardship after January 21, 2020, through qualified expenses related to mortgage and
housing.
Again, Budget Director Yoshimura is on the line. Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Director, where is this money coming from?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Chair, it's coming from the American Rescue Plan Act.
CHAIR LEE: And how much is left of the ARPA?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: So, this is a separate appropriation from our ARPA funding. This is
an appropriation of $8 million, of which $1.1 million can be used for administrative
costs. I can give you more information about the program. It's for those who have
experienced hardship because of the Coronavirus pandemic and can be used to
provide homeowners with incomes at or below 150 percent of the median, area median
income. So, 150 percent AMI for a family of four is $154,950. The total maximum
subsidy is $30,000 per household and can be used for their primary residence only.
So, this period runs through September 30 of 2026. And the types of financial
assistance that's eligible is mortgage reinstatement, mortgage payments, mortgage
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 250
default resolution, property charge default resolution, and utility payment assistance.
So, once this is approved, we'll put together a program, and have it administered, and
that would be by application.
CHAIR LEE: So-
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: --you didn't answer my question. What is the balance of the ARPA funds after
you delete $8,000,000?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Oh, no. So, this is a totally separate appropriation from the ARPA
monies of the $35 million that was earlier recognized.
CHAIR LEE: Oh separate? Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yeah, so this is a separate appropriation.
CHAIR LEE: Member King?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you, Chair. So, you asked one of my questions. But the,
so. Director, so this is a program specifically for, for homeowners' assistance? And
then, was our allocation based on population?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I'm not sure how our allocation was determined. I can find out for you
how our allocation was determined. And 1 think Linda Munsell or Lori Tsuhako are
probably listening, so I'll get a text from them shortly with the response.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: And then, are you planning to RFP this out? Like, is there going
to be an or, a nonprofit organization that will handle these applications and the
allocations?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes, it'll probably be handled in the same manner as the Rental
Assistance Program where it was RFP'd out, and an organization was, is actually
administering the program.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: So, you put a, do you put out an RFP and then you have different
organizations apply for, to be able to fill that role?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 251
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Member Johnson.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for staying late with us,
Director Yoshimura. I just, my question was answered, one of them was. But the
second one is, do the, do the people who apply for this, they have to prove hardship
for COVID? Or can anyone apply under 115 percent AMI?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: I believe they have to prove hardship. There, there's criteria and
there's documentation that you need to provide.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you so much for answering my questions. I
have no further questions. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Anybody else with questions? None? Anything else, Vice-Chair Rawlins-
Fernandez?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Nothing else. I think it'll be unanimous.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: One more question. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Member King.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Thank you. So, is this, is this for only for homeowners or can it
also be used for rental assistance for people who are?
BUDGET DIRECTOR: This program is for mortgage assistance for homeowners. We did
have a separate, or we do have a separate program for rental assistance. And that
one had, I think, 40 million.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, that’s the, the 40 million that's still kind of hanging around?
Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 252
CHAIR LEE; Okay. Ready? Set? All those in favor, say "aye".
AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS JOHNSON, KAMA. KING,
MOLINA, PALTIN, SINENCl, SUGIMURA,
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ. AND
CHAIR LEE.
NOES: NONE.
zero "noes". Motion carries. Very good.CHAIR LEE: It's unanimous; nine "ayes'
Any more Vice-Chair? Boy, you cut your-
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: That is everything.
CHAIR LEE: -you cut your load down in half.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: I did. Thank you. Members. Mahalo, Chair. The
others will be referred to Committee for a full discussion. Mahalo a nui loa. Budget
Director Yoshimura, for hanging out with us this long. It was a long day. Thank you.
Mahalo, Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Okay.
BUDGET DIRECTOR: Thank you. Chair.
CHAIR LEE: Very good. Anything else? Madam Clerk, anything else?
COUNTY CLERK: Chair, there is no more business for the Council at this moment.
CHAIR LEE: At this moment? Okay. Okay, Members, any announcements?
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: I love Shane's background.
CHAIR LEE; Yeah, me too. Makes me sleepy.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: I, I wrote Bill 2 myself.
CHAIR LEE: You did?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 253
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: Uh huh.
CHAIR LEE: Oh, okay.
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN; Both brackets.
CHAIR LEE: You did?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I have a question for you, Chair. So, the, the new PSA thing that
you're putting together with Akaku, am 1 good if  Idon't, can you just use my old one?
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER KING; Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR LEE: Yes. But this is an opportunity of you guys, though, to be creative and different
though. Although, I know yours, Kelly, is, you did upgrade it, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: I, well, I wrote my own so it's not one of. . .
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, but no. but you updated it to include your last trip and, right?
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. So, I'm encouraging you to be creative because we're in a situation
where, where people need to pay attention to our messages. It's just, it can't be just a
straight message that doesn't cause one to think about it, or even go out and get a
shot, or try to wear masks or something. So, you, what we want to do is, is really drive
the point home.
You're going to hear, if you haven't heard already, the new one on mine is I'm talking
to my nephew. Anybody heard that? Anyway, he's seven years old. He's hard to
understand because, you know, he's never done this before. But we're talking about
personal responsibility. And then, I talk about kuleana, and then he asks me what is
kuleana. And then we, and then I answer him. So then, my hope is that people will
pay attention to this little kid talking about kuleana and wearing a mask and COVID-19,
and so forth.
There are a lot of messages on television, I notice. But we still have a ways to go for
people to get vaccinated, so we're, you know, we need 25 percent of the population
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 254
are still not vaccinated. So, the more we can get that, drive that message home and
and be successful making the pitch, eventually we'll get out of this pandemic.
Like, I don't have today's numbers, but yesterday was terrible. What, anybody have
today's numbers? Yuki, you have today's numbers? Did the numbers go up? Well, I
can't hear you. You're muted.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Today is 579 on Maui, 20 on Molokai, 11 on Lanai.
CHAIR LEE; And statewide?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Statewide is 3,586. Very bad.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. So, I don't know if it's affecting your families, but it's, it's affecting mine.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA; It's affecting mine.
CHAIR LEE; I had, I had a nephew, I had a niece, you know. Luckily, they had their shots,
so it wasn't too bad. But still, you know, it's just like creeping into a, into the
neighborhood.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah, it's all around.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah. So, everybody, please, if you need help writing your script let me know
and, and we'll, we'll get the staff to help you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: So, what is the deadline?
CHAIR LEE: As soon as possible. It's actually, according to Chivo's schedule. He's available
next week. Before
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He's so . . .
CHAIR LEE; Before 1:00. Before 1:00.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Okay.
CHAIR LEE: Yeah, try and be, try and put yourself as the audience. And what, what kind of
message would you listen to and, and make you stop and think about going to get your
shots?
Okay, everybody, any last things?
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 255
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Oh. good night.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Happy birthday, Cielo.
COUNCILMEMBER MOLINA: Yeah. I, I gotta go find, thank you, I gotta find a restaurant
before they close at 10, or McDonald's drive thru.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Happy birthday to your wife.
CHAIR LEE: Drive carefully. Drive carefully.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: Goodbye, Mike. God bless you.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Alice, can I ask you something about the agenda? How, when
you look at this agenda, how are you supposed to know what is second and final
reading?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Bye. Mr. Molina. Bye.
CHAIR LEE: I know, that's why I stopped, I stumbled for a second. Because before, the. my
script did say second and final reading. And then, that's, when I looked again it didn't
say anything. So, yeah. I, I'm going to, I was going to talk to staff about that. They
need to-
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Separate it.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Cause I think the public can't tell what, what's, you know, what's
first reading.
CHAIR LEE: Right. I thought it was only on my, my sheet. But I, thanks for bringing that up.
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Okay. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Thanks, Keani, for doing the video.
CHAIR LEE: Huh?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh. you watched it?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I did.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 256
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Oh, okay.
CHAIR LEE: What video? What video?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: I also had a one on one with the Clerk's. Huh?
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: ... so you know.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Yeah.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: Yeah, we just have to adjust the agenda if we would
like to be . . .
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Make first and second reading, yeah. But you notice how
the, the community, they, nobody even thought it's different, right? Everybody just kind
of, so the, the numbers are working. So, I thought that was interesting today. But
sorry, everybody. Thank you very much. Have a nice evening. Tomorrow is Pulehu
Posse. Anybody want to clean rubbish in Kula?
CHAIR LEE: No. not at all.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Come, come . . .
COUNCILMEMBER PALTIN: . . . noticed.
CHAIR LEE: I'm beat. I'm beat. 1 haven't slept in two days.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Okay, everybody. Thank you.
COUNCILMEMBER KAMA: ...everyone. Goodnight. Have  agreat weekend.
CHAIR LEE: Yes.
COUNCILMEMBER JOHNSON: Chair, you going to gavel out? Are you going to gavel out?
COUNTY CLERK: Yeah.
CHAIR LEE: I'm going to gavel out. I'm going to gavel out. Well, where did Sinenci go?
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: He left.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: They left.
Regular Meeting of the Council of the County of Maui
January 7, 2022
Page 257
COUNCILMEMBER KING: He left.
VICE-CHAIR RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ: But we're here. We still have quorum.
COUNCILMEMBER SUGIMURA: Oh, he's-
COUNCILMEMBER KING: Oh, there he is.
CHAIR LEE: Okay. This meeting is adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
The regular meeting of January 7, 2022 was adjourned by the Chair at 9:16 p.m.
KATHY KAOHU, COUNTY CLERK
COUNTY OF MAUI, STATE OF HAWAII
220107/lks:jm
Count^^leH<
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:46 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Protect Maui Neighborhoods by Keeping Visitors in Resort Areas
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Pacific Resource Partnership <info@prp-hawaii.com>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 2:03:20 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Pa!tin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Protect Maui Neighborhoods by Keeping Visitors in Resort Areas
rnO In
m -●
::c
t I
oO.
PACinC fi CSOJRCi: PAHINEHGWr’
Protect Maui Neighborhoods and Keep Visitors in Resort Areas
Hawaii's economy is rebounding as visitors are returning to the islands following nearly two
challenging years for our visitor industry. However, they aren't only staying in our hotels and resorts
but booking short-term rentals and staying in our neighborhoods.
Recently, Maui Mayor Mike Victorino vetoed a bill  - Bill 148 - that put a moratorium on the
construction and renovation of hotels on Maui. This would only push visitors further toward short
term rentals in residential neighborhoods, resulting in fewer homes and driving up housing prices in
the middle of a housing crisis on Maui.
in 2016, out-of-state owners controlled 30 percent of Maui's total housing stock. And 14,000 of
those homes were available for rent when not occupied by the owner, 55 percent of which were
offered as short-term rentals for visitor use. This moratorium only creates an opportunity for outside
investors and homeowners to purchase and drive up housing costs for Maui residents.
1
Tell the Maui Council to protect our neighborhoods and our economy by voting NO on the
moratorium on visitor accommodations now.
Maui Home Ownership by Residency
49638
■ In State Owner
■ Out-of-State Owner
We need policies and solutions that will continue to grow our economy, invest in sustainable
development, and make it easier for residents to stay and thrive. This moratorium is not what our
economy needs right now. We should be focused on reviving our most important industries and
investing in our neighborhoods, communities, and people.
With smart policies, we can create greater economic opportunities for people to stay here in Hawaii
AND protect the quality of life that we all cherish.
2
"Remember, a moratorium is not going to stop people from traveling to Maui.
Where are they going to go now if there are no more hotel rooms? They are
going to go into our neighborhoods" - Maui Mayor Mike Victorino
1EMAIL THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCII
Jj
Pacific Resource Partnership, 1100 Alakea St., 4th Floor, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Unsubscribe Manage preferences
3
\
DAVtD Y. ICE
GOVERNOR
STATE OF HAWAII
TYLER I. GOMES
DEPUTY TO TOE CHAUIMAN
JOSH GREEN
LT GOVERNOR
STATEOFHAWAII
STATE OF HAWAI‘I
DEPARTMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS O "nC T'5
2:0
;dP O. BOX 1879
HONOLULU, HAWAI I 9680S 3t».
rn-i om I
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM J. AILA, JR, CHAIRMAN
HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION
BEFORE THE MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL
MEETING ON JANUARY 7, 2022 AT 9;00 AM
CK r-1
noo “Or- <.m —/X) r:X ri
m■'V
aw'VJ
RESOLUTION NO. 22-4 (2022)
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and Members of the County Council:
The Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) submits testimony offering
comments on and support for this resolution.
The availability of water is one of the key barriers DHHL faces in the
development and delivery of homesteads across Hawai'i. In acknowledgement of that
reality, the Legislature has included a number of provisions in various statutes to help
address that challenge. All of these provisions are intended to ensure that the purposes
of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act (HHCA), including “Providing adequate
amounts of water and supporting infrastructure, so that homestead lands will always be
usable and accessible” (HHCA 101(b)(4)) will be fulfilled.
One of those provisions relates to the issuance of state water leases and
licenses, which includes the East Maui waters addressed by this resolution. Hawai'i
Revised Statutes 171-58(g) requires that prior to the issuance of any long-term water
lease, “After consultation with affected beneficiaries, these departments shall jointly
develop a reservation of water rights sufficient to support current and future homestead
needs. Any lease of water rights or renewal shall be subject to the rights of the
department of Hawaiian home lands as provided by section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes
Commission Act.”
To fulfill this requirement, in December 2020 DHHL, after beneficiary consultation
and approval by the Hawaiian Homes Commission, has submitted a request to the
Commission on Water Resources Management (CWRM) for such a reservations We
have requested CWRM to approve a reservation of 11,177,500 gallons per day
originating from the watershed of, and tributaries to, the East Maui streams diverted by
the East Maui Irrigation system for non-potable water use in Pulehunui and Keokea-
Waiohuli Hawaiian Home Lands.
It is also helpful in relationship to this resolution to share that to further ensure
that adequate water will be provided for Hawaiian Home Lands, the Hawai'i Supreme
Court has explicitly included that reservations of water for, and uses of water by, the
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
Page 2
DHHL for homesteading purposes are one of the four “public trust” uses of water that
are to be provided for and protected. This status is described in the same decisions
that this resolution references, the Waiahole water case and the Kaua'i Springs case (In
re Water Use Permit Applications.94 Hawaii 97 (2000), and Kauai Springs, Inc. v.
Planning Commission of County of Kauai,133 Hawaii 141(2014)).
As a municipal government agency, the County of Maui has an obligation to
uphold not only the public trust doctrine, but also the legal obligations outlined in the
Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, a Constitutional mandate and a condition of
statehood. DLNR also holds those mandates and must require of any potential water
lessee or assignee to fulfill these duties as a condition of any lease or license. We note
that the current owners of EMI participated in our beneficiary consultation process and
have done nothing to indicate that they oppose the granting of our reservation and
cooperation in the provision of water to our beneficiaries.
However, DHHL notes that the obligations of the County of Maui are
unambiguous in regard to its duties to the HHCA. Hence DHHL recognizes the benefits
that would accrue to its beneficiaries if this resolution were passed and its actions
contemplated were adopted.
Finally, we note that in separate constitutional and statutory provisions, DHHL is
to receive, in addition to any reserved water, 30% of the revenues generated by water
lease and license payments. Thus we are grateful for and support the provisions of this
resolution acknowledging that lease payments would still be made to the State.
We would be happy to answer any questions. Thank you for your consideration
of our testimony.
Me ke aloha.
William^ Aiia, Jp^Chairman
Hawaiian Homes Commission
Ref.:PO-22-009
Count^£leH<
—ni-Gj.! J'EP
202? JAfJ -6 AM & 17
From:
Sent:
Nick Drance <nick@themauimiracle.org>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 7:24 AM
County Clerk
Testimony for County Council Meeting January 7
To:
Subject:
ICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
i ●
IYou don't often get email from nick@themauimirade.org. Learn why this is important
Testimony regarding Bill 148, County Communication 22-9
Submitted by Nick Drance
The Transient Visitor Accommodations Moratorium has overwhelming public support. As you know, Covid gave
residents the opportunity to see what life here on our island looks like when it's not overrun with tourists. We need a
breather. Time to recalibrate and really discuss the future of this island. Please honor the wishes of the great majority of
your constituents.
These points have been made repeatedly but deserve to be mentioned again.
1. As has been said over and over, The Maui Island Plan stipulates a much lower tourist to resident ratio than we have
now. The Core Principles and Mission Statements also say that residents wish Maui to maintain a small town
atmosphere, which of course makes sense. Who would wish to fight traffic and be overrun with tourists? As we look
around us today, 1 wonder why we pretend that these documents have any meaning. It seems to me that a vote against
this measure says that they do not.
2. If the tourist to resident ration is already out of whack, why make a bad situation worse? That just doesn't make
sense. Of course, we can continue to build homes for more mainlanders to move here which reduces the ratio. That's
what we are doing but that doesn't make sense either.
3. Construction Industry representatives have clearly testified that there is no shortage of work for those in the
construction industry. To say that the moratorium is harmful to business is worse than inaccurate.
4. The proposal, as written, to some degree, is actually, written in favor of developers. It sanctions some development,
currently planned, or in their infancy. Projects currently submitted for approval, appear to be grandfathered in. This
looks like a clear give away to me. This measure seems tame compared to what many think it should be. Surely these
concessions should satisfy those who doubt the fairness of how this measure is written.
5. As you know, I lament the urbanization of our island, mainland style. It's not "Island style". Whether it's additional
transient or long term visitor accommodations. It seems that a mainland business model of "development" is solidly
established here. (One that primarily benefits mainland corporations and people that don't live here yet). I'll never
understand how anyone can think that "paving over paradise" makes sense on this 750 square mile island. How odd that
mainland business interests continue to take and take from this place, so blatantly... and that people who live here
actually encourage it. It just doesn't seem to make sense.
1
iU/,
Vf
,  n
www.TheMauiMiracle.ora
Nick Drance
Kihei, Hi 96753
2
Count^Clerk nno-,.-.cj
?I)/Z JAN -6 PH 2: 5 i|
OFhlCE OF THE
BOUNTY CLERK
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 2:47 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: Maui Chamber Legislation <legislation@mauichamber.com>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 11:08:56 AM HST
To: "Alice L. Lee" <Alice.Lee@mauicounty.us>, "Keani N. Rawlins" <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>,
Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>, "Tasha A. Kama" <Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>, Kelly
King <Kelly.King(®mauicounty.us>, "Mike J. Molina" <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>, "Tamara A. Paltin"
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>, "Shane M. Sinenci" <Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>, Yukilei
Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Bill 148
Happy New Year Councilmembers!
We hope you had a wonderful holiday season and are excited for the new year.
We are deeply concerned by Bill 148 because of the negative consequences it will have
and feel many do not fully understand the broad reach of the accommodations industry
that shores up many other industries and our overall economy. We stand with the
community on the need to better manage tourism, diversify our economy and build
affordable housing and rentals and are actively working on and involved in programs to
help. However, Bill 148 is highly inflexible at a time when we need great flexibility and
we do not think this moratorium is the right answer. Further, there was not enough
discussion on the ramifications of this bill and we are particularly troubled by the
substantial last minute amendments that passed without thorough community review
and vetting. We are hopeful in this new year to meet with you and connect you with
industries and businesses who can share the interconnectedness between industries,
as well as the unique issues they face to provide you with needed information on how
legislation and government regulations help or hurt.
Please consider the weight of your decision as many will remember it given the
considerable effects it will have across the community. We ask that you not override
Mayor Victorino’s veto of Bill 148 tomorrow because he has been working with the
industry, understands this measure is harmful, was not fully vetted, and has far reaching
impacts.
Mahalo for the opportunity to share our thoughts with you. We are sending you best
wishes for a joyous 2022. I look forward to seeing you during BlueJeans testimony
tomorrow.
1
Sincerely,
Pamela
MAUICHAMBliROF COMMERCE
VOICE OF BUSINESS
PAMELA TUMPAP
President
62 N. Market St #302
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
t: 808-244-0081
f: 808-244-0083
w: MauiChamber.com
2
Aloha, Pamela Tumpap here providing a response to Council Member Rawlins-Fernandez's question on
the Amendments made during Second & Final Reading (after public testimony) that the Maui Chamber
of Commerce is concerned by. Mahalo for the opportunity to allow me to answer the question in the
chat.
There were 3 amendments made during Second and Final Reading by Councilmember Rawlins-
Fernandez with one initially authored by Councilmember Sugimura, however, Councilmember
Sugimura's amendment was posted on the agenda and then brought up and revised by Council Member
Rawlins-Fernandez.
● Proposed by Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez: Amended Section F under exemptions - “Any
development that includes new housing units built, at a ratio of at least one housing unit for every
[three] one transient accommodation unit, rounding up to the nearest whole number, of the total
number of new transient accommodation..." I mentioned this in my response to Councilmember
Rawlins-Fernandez's question during the meeting. Maui Chamber of Commerce has significant concerns
with this amendment as it changed the ratio from  1for 3 to 1 for 1 which has substantial financial
implications. The bill posted with the Second and Final Reading Agenda still had the ratio at 1 for 3.
● Proposed by Councilmember Sugimura and Amended further by Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez:
Amended Section F, Line 4 -“Housing credits may not be issued to or used by the developer to satisfy
the requirement of this subsection for any type of unit constructed. The new affordable housing units
must be physically constructed (this is where Councilmember Sugimura's amendment ended, with the
following added by Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez) or may be converted from housing units
currently used as transient accommodations to be used as long-term housing for the purposes of this
section." While the Maui Chamber of Commerce was okay with Councilmember Sugimura's posted
amendment to clarify that the units would be physically built, we feel Councilmember Rawlins-
Fernandez's addition included an element of change that should have been previously discussed with
the industry and vetted further so the industry and community had a chance to weigh in on it before a
Floor Amendment on Second and Final Reading.
0 Councilmember Sugimura's amendment posted on the agenda sought to amend the above section,
but only to include the line "the new affordable housing units must be physically constructed."
● Proposed by Councilmember Rawlins-Fernandez: Amended Section 2 - “This ordinance takes effect
on approval and applies to any new transient accommodation that has not received its final
discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this Ordinance."
0 Prior to Second and Final Reading, Section 2 read: This Ordinance takes effect on approval, but does
not apply to the processing, approval, or granting of any application for the approval of a new transient
accommodation that has received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance. Amended Section 2 - “This ordinance takes effect on approval and applies to any new
transient accommodation that has not received its final discretionary approval prior to the effective date
of this Ordinance." While the Maui Chamber of Commerce understands it was provided as clarifying
language, we feel more of this work should have been done earlier as the wording was different before.
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 2:48 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Please Consider Voting to Sustain Mayor’s Veto of Bill 148
To:
Subject:
J
C T]
c
2;o
Sent from my iPad 3=>» moBegin forwarded message: IJ m o. rnoo *T3-nFrom: mhannemann@hawaiilodging.org
Date: January 6, 2022 at 12:08:00 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Please Consider Voting to Sustain Mayor's Veto of Bill 148
<rn mj:
7^ m aV.H
IYou don't often get email from mhannemann@hawaiilodging.org. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Yesterday, you received a letter from the Maui Hotel & Lodging Association detailing our objections to
Bill 148 and requesting your vote to sustain Mayor Victorino’s veto. HLTA has an affiliate and close
working relationship with MHLA and helped craft the letter. In circulating it statewide, we found further
support for our message. Therefore, you will find below a reproduction of the original letter with
additional signatories from tourism and tourism adjacent businesses and organizations.
We again ask for your careful consideration on Bill 148. Should you have any questions, please do not
hesitate to contact us or MHLA directly at any time.
Mahalo,
Mufi Hannemann
President & CEO
Hawai‘i Lodging & Tourism Association
HAWAI'I LODGING & TOURISM
ASSOC lAT ION
January 6, 2022
Aloha Councilmember Paltin,
We, a coalition of tourism, business, and labor organizations, are appealing to you to
request your consideration in voting to sustain Maui Mayor Michael Victorino’s veto of Bill 148
which would create a moratorium on the issuance of building permits for all new lodging
1
accommodations throughout Maui. We are aware and concerned about the intent of the measure
that was passed by the Maui County Council. We believe strongly that Bill 148, as it is currently
written, will not have the intended effects sought by the Council and will inadvertently hurt not
only Maui’s overall tourism industry, but also have negative effects for countless other
businesses that rely on tourism to employ thousands of Maui residents.
For instance, Bill 148 does not adequately address the proliferation of illegal, short-term
vacation rental units—an issue that begs for more attention and prioritization. As we are all well
aware, the most explosive growth in visitor accommodations in recent years has not been in the
traditional, brick-and-mortar lodging operations, which have been nominal, but in short-term
vacation rental units—both legal and illegal. Unscrupulous operation of illegal units has led to
the unchecked growth of short-term rental inventory in both resort and residential zoned areas.
Ease of booking, relative price, and their availability have drawn travelers to these units, and this
will continue and likely worsen if the development of traditional lodging properties is limited.
Curtailing development and restricting growth will only drive more visitors to these
accommodations and will further exacerbate the need for more affordable housing for local
residents.
It also remains our position that a moratorium on building permits will have the
unintended effect of depressing the market for other sectors of the economy including the
construction industry as well as other various skilled trades—many of which rely upon the
tourism industry for their economic well-being. The issuance of building permits ultimately
means more projects, more jobs, and more opportunities for Maui residents; limiting this for our
economy on the heels of a worldwide pandemic is self-destructive and will have lasting
economic consequences for Maui County. Meaningful and substantive investment into Maui’s
economy could be jeopardized or lost.
It is a substantive fact that tourism remains Maui’s strongest economic driver. It
consistently provides jobs not only in the lodging industry, but also in ground and air transport,
activities and attractions, retail and dining, the service industry, and the agricultural sector which
provides local goods and produce for eateries enjoyed by visitors and residents alike. Putting a
two-year hold on building permits will effectively hamstring the industry as it works to attract
the ideal traveler and provide a quality experience on the Valley Isle, hurting our overall tourism
product and creating new challenges and roadblocks that will need to be addressed in the future.
Finally, we would be remiss not to cite the last-minute changes that were made to Bill
148 just prior to its passage. This did not allow for proper vetting and for a robust public
discussion to take place. A measure with such staggering impacts on the local populace and
economy deserves more openness and transparency, and this measure was not given the
appropriate time to be considered by the public in any meaningful way.
In closing, we would like to reiterate that we understand that the people of Maui are
seeking well-thought-out solutions to strike a balance between the needs and desires of local
residents and visitors. We remain steadfast in our belief that Bill 148 is not the answer. We,
therefore, stand ready to work with the Maui County Council to identify alternate strategies to
address better tourism management, so at this time we ask that you consider the ramifications of
this measure and vote to sustain Mayor Victorino’s veto.
Mahalo for your consideration.
2
He*,Mull Hunnemunn
President & CEO
Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Associalion
HAWAt'l LODOING& TOURISM
ASSOCIATION
MAUI Pamela Tumpap
President/Sccrelar)'
Maui Chamber of Commerce
CIUMBEROF COMMrnCI
L
Ronald 1. Takela
Executive Secrelary-Treasurer
Hawaii Regional Council ofCarpenier
(II riRH\lHI\||UUIll!ll.
Gino S(X|uena
Executive Diretlor
Hawaii Builders & Conslnietion Trade Council
HAWAII BUILDING B
CONSTRUCTION SmSl
William Greig
Business Agent
Operating Engineers Ltval Union #3
/l/VxAirlines for Am«rka'
Scan Willbiiis
Vice I’rcsidcni. State and L«Ka! Gmcmisiciu Affairs
Airliitcs fur America
anTcnnerre- ^av)s
Toni Marie Davis
Executive Director
Aelivities & Attractions Associalion of Hawaii. Inc.
L
3
RbCEiVED
JAN -6 PH 3: 03HAWAI I LODGING & TOURISM
ASSOC IAT ION
Testimony of
Mufi Hannemann
President & CEO
Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Association
OFFiCE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
Maui County Council
Council Meeting
January 7, 2022
Chair Lee and members of the Council, mahalo for the opportunity to submit testimony on behalf of the
Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Association, the state’s largest private sector visitor industry organization.
The Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Association—nearly 700 members strong, representing more than
50,000 hotel rooms and nearly 40,000 lodging workers—recognizes that the intent of this measure is to
place limitations on the overall numbers of travelers that visit Maui on any given day, but remain
convinced that Bill 148 is short-sighted, will not lead to a more responsible and respectful tourist to
travel to Maui, and will have unintended and significant ramifications for the countless local business
that rely upon tourism to employ thousands of Maui residents.
As HLTA has stated repeatedly in every part of the state, it has become glaringly clear over the past
several years that the explosive growth in transient accommodation units is not occurring in traditional
lodging operations but in short-term rental units—both legal and illegal. This has happened in both
resort and residential zoned areas, and Maui residents continue to suffer the consequences. Limiting the
expansion of resorts while not enacting clear measures and oversight of short-term rentals will
ultimately drive more travelers to these units and will place further stress on Maui’s affordable housing
market. We believe this is where more emphasis needs to be placed by government and a collaborative
effort made with the private sector and labor groups to make our neighborhoods more affordable for
local residents. We stand ready to work with the Council and Mayor Victorino’s administration to
identify alternate strategies to provide both better tourism management and an adequate inventory of
affordable housing for Maui residents.
Moreover, a moratorium on building permits will depress the market for other sectors of the local
economy including skilled trades of all types—many of which rely upon lodging properties for the bulk
of their work. Allowing building permits to be freely issued to legal lodging operations means more job
opportunities for Maui residents and placing limitations on the county’s overall economic recovery
seems self-destructive and unnecessary. This will have lasting consequences that will lead to the loss of
meaningful and substantive investments into Maui’s economy.
Maui relies upon tourism for its economic well-being; this was evident throughout the COVID-19
pandemic. The industry brings people and money to the island, and residents enjoy jobs not only in the
lodging industry, but in retail, dining, activities and attractions, and even the agricultural sector which
counts tourism among its most consistent customers. Enacting a moratorium will ultimately hurt this
industry and, by extension, the countless Maui residents who comprise its workforce.
Hawai i l,odging Tourism Association
2270 Ralakaua Avenue. Suite 1702. llonoliiiu. Hawaii 96815 ● I’hone: (,808) 923-0407 ● Kax; (808) 924-3843
infoat hauaiilociging.org ● www.liawaiilodging.org
Finally, it must also be noted that significant changes were made to Bill 148 just prior to passage which
did not allow for the robust public discussion that a measure like this deserves. Legislation that would
have far-reaching effects on the local populace deserves transparency, and the final changes to Bill 148
did not have the time for public scrutiny or discussion.
For these reasons, HLTA opposes Bill 148 and asks the Council to vote to sustain Mayor
Victorino’s veto.
Mahalo for the opportunity to provide this testimony.
Count^£lerk r?r.nr-i\!I
Bobbie Best <bestb002@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 5:53 PM
County Clerk
Please override the mayor’s veto on Bill 148
From:
Sent: JAN -6 AH 8: 16
To:
Subject: ● ■ IC E OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
i
[You don't often get email from bestb002@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
A moratorium on new Transient Accommodations on Maui would give time to address Maui over tourism issues This is
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
The above is for this this Friday's meeting and I'd like to Council to consider this input.
Mahalo,
Barbara Best, a fifty year resident of the islands, so I've seen what tourism has done.
280 Hauoli
Wailuku
242-9119
1
Count^£leHc
From:
Sent:
David Dorn <daviddorn808@gmail.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 9:16 AM
Alice L Lee; Yukilei Sugimura; yukiJee@mauicounty.us; Keani N. Rawlins; Gabe Johnson;
Tasha A. Kama; Shane M. Sinenci; Mike J. Molina; Kelly King; Tat^^a'A. Paffil!i; County
Clerk C t| ^
To:
zzSubject: Council Meeting Testimony January 7, 2022: ^ OH Im '-sj
OO :::
Council Meeting Testimony January 7. 2022: m -~i
Hello, my name is David Dom, speaking on behalf of myself and Sierra Club Maui Chapter;
'i?
Osz
Kjj
Resolution 22-4, East Maui Water Leases:
“I support the Proposed resolution to have State and County control over east Maui water, and I am against
irrevocable 30-year water leases for Mahi Pono. We need autonomy over our own water. And it should not be
delegated into private hands. Our water is a public resource. The waters of Hawaii are held as a public trust. I
support the Council adopting the Resolution “on the floor” of the Council meeting, rather than referring it to a
committee”.
Resolution 22-5 on Red Hill,
As a watershed advocate, I Support Efforts "URGING THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO PERMANENTLY REMOVE AND
RELOCATE THE BULK FUEL STORAGE FACILITY UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS LOCATED AT
KAPUKAKT (RED HILL, O'AHU)"
Item CC 22-9 the Visitor accommodation Moratorium override^:
We have taken a lot of our time and your (councilperson’s) valuable time to come up with this bill. We cannot
allow the Mayor to veto our hard efforts and undermine the democratic process. That is why we are asking you
to overturn this unjustified Veto.
Maui is sick, from an imbalanced tourism industry. We are overrun with too many tourists and have far
exceeded our island’s capacity. Too much of our water goes to the Hotels and resorts while local
families cannot get water meters, and we have water restrictions.
More land is being sold to developers for Timeshares. Condos, and Hotels. While we have an extreme
housing shortage, and an affordable housing crisis.
The tourism industry is not suffering from Covid, Corporate profits from tourism are. Airlines are
complaining and hotel chains are complaining, about recouping all of their lost profits, But hotels are
actually more profitable now than ever before, even if their occupancy is slightly down.
We already do not have enough Locals to fill the jobs in Tourism. Hotels and Tourism businesses often
have to bring in more staff from the mainland or overseas to fill local jobs.
While our own people have to more off island because of hieh costs of living. The tourism industry does
employ a lot of local people, but big corporations like hotels are not willing to pay the locals a living
wage. So they often recruit mainlanders to do the lowest-paying jobs. They know that they can get
cheaper workers short-term But the wages they are paying are not sufficient to support a local family
long-term. Low wages are unsustainable in the long term.
1
Maui’s minimum livable wage needs to be above 20 dollars per hour for a young single person, and
higher for anyone with dependents. How many hotels are already paying this “minimum livable wage'
to all of their housecleaners and support staff?
There are too many Cheap Flights and Too Many Hotel Rooms: This keeps prices low and increases
demand. More heads in beds, and more travelers, will require more cheap labor necessary to service it
all.
Building more hotels creates more competition among existing hotels, and reduces demand for existing
hotels/beds, and the value of a room drops.
When the value of a hotel room drops, there is less money to pay cleaners and maintenance staff, as
cheap labor becomes increasingly necessary to maintain the increasing number of rooms.
In fairness to our workforce: Our workforce needs to clean/service fewer rooms for more money.
Building more hotels will not help us to achieve that. Building more hotels at this time will create an
economic disincentive for hotels to pay higher wages to local workers. This will cause them to seek out
mainlanders and international workers.
Hotels are not ('always') built bv local workers: Hotels are often built by off-island work crews.
Interisland or mainland companies are brought in. In short, these Hotels are not being built to help us
or our community, they are being built to exploit our resources and labor force.
Our Island is severely out of balance over-tourism and we need this Moratorium to help control the
excessive growth of tourism and restore some security for our community and our economy. Please
overturn this Veto.
Mahalo,
David Dorn
2
REC 'VEDCount^^lerk
20Z? JAN -7 AH 7: 57From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 8:04 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Over-ride the Mayor's Veto
To:
C.-J'ICE O? »  I ^
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Dick Mayer <dickmayer@earthlink.net>
Sent: Thursday, January 6, 2022 6:53:59 PM
To: tampaltin@gmail.com <tampaltin@gmail.com>; Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Over-ride the Mayor's Veto
Aloha Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Mayor Michael Victorino has again shown his interest in promoting a bigger Maui tourist industry. He
vetoed a well-considered County moratorium (passed 6-3) which would temporarily limit even more
tourist accommodations over the next two years.
The Maui Island Plan provided guidance for the council and the mayor. He decided to ignore its
provisions which recommended, “To protect the quality of Maui’s visitor industry, and the island
lifestyle, the County must carefully manage and control any future expansion of visitor units on Maui
island." (MIP Page 4-11); and “Mitigate the impact of tourism on the host culture, natural environment^
and resident lifestyles.” (MIP Page 4-13)
The mayor gave as his rationale for allowing even more growth that his departments are unable to
enforce the law against illegal vacation rentals, even though voters approved a $10,000 fine for any
illegal vacation rental. If the mayor's reasoning is accurate, how can a tourist from far away find an
illegal vacation rental so easily, while the mayor's local administration is unable to locate illegal
rentals?
It is unfortunate our mayor feels it necessary to bring in more tourists and put even more rental cars
on the roads when our infrastructure is not capable of handling the existing impacts. Furthermore,
Maui's world famous and highly respected tourism industry is jeopardized by further
expansion. It will erode the product that Maui is trying to market.
When any of the construction trades come to you and say that you hurt construction jobs, you will be
able to say this opens up the opportunity for the construction industry to upgrade the quality of all of
our existing and aging tourist properties while constructing amenities, room improvements,
etc. There should be lots of jobs.
1
Let’s protect what we have; not let tourism overwhelm us. The Council should override the Mayor’s
veto.
Mahalo from Maui’s residents, Dick Mayer
dickmaver@earthlink.net
2
REC EDTESTIMONY OF JEROME KEKIWI, JR.
PRESIDENT, NA MOKU AUPUNI O KO'OLAU HUI
Ml JAN -5 PN 18RE: MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 22-4
URGING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEI^^^^i^V^'i ^WITH THE STATE OF HAWAII BOARD OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES TO
PROVIDE A LONG-TERM, RELIABLE, AND AFFORDABLE SOURCE OF WATER
FOR COUNTY DOMESTIC AND AGRICULTURAL USE
January 7, 2022
Aloha. My name is Jerome Kekiwi Jr. and I am the President of Na Moku Aupuni
0 Ko'olau Hui. Our members are the lineal descendants and current residents of
Ke'anae-Wailuanui in East Maui. We grow taro, fish, hunt and gather to feed our
families as a way of life. We are the lead plaintiffs in the East Maui water cases,
including the June, 2018 decision that restored East Maui streams.
We would like to thank our elected Council member, Shane Sinenci, for his
strong leadership on this issue. We believe he has done as much as humanely possible
to do the right thing for his constituents. Thank you Councilman Sinenci.
In testimony before the Board of Land & Natural Resources last year on whether
EMI’s Final EIS should be accepted, we acknowledged the good work and relationship
that our community has recognized and developed with Mahi Pono.
However, we did express concern that the BLNR not turn over control of this
critical public trust resource to a foreign-based pension investment fund whose business
model includes aquisition of water rights both here and abroad, for profit.
We agree with this Resolution’s basic premise, which is that as fiduciaries, policy
and decision-makers, this Council is obligated to act foremostly in the best interest of its
constituents, who are also its public trust beneficiaries.
The truth is that for many decades our community suffered great injury,
acknowledged in both court and Commission on Water Resources Management
decisions, under Mahi Pono’s predecessor, EMI, as well as this County, who were allied
against us in our water struggles. Because of this, it is very difficult for our community to
side with either Mahi Pono or the County. What is proposed in this Resolution looks
good, but politics being what they are, and in spite of our best efforts, too often we have
seen good public policy, and practice, shift to the bad after an election. So we are
hoping that all of you who believe that public trust resources should be managed by
Hawai'i, and not foreign corporations, will continue to serve on this Council.
After many decades of fighting all the powers that be - the state, county, labor
unions, big corporations, their vast network of supporters, here is what our community
can say for certain.
Hawai'i’s public trust resources should be controlled by Hawai'i. It is dangerous
to surrender this trust obligation to a foreign for-profit corporation. Our disadvantaged
position relative to the global market is readily apparent with our housing crisis. Foreign
investors with unlimited cash are literally pricing local people out of their homeland.
What we want is community partnership, management and stewardship. It’s
going on four years since streams were restored in our moku and we have endeavored
to do all within our power and means to be good stewards. This is not a business
proposition for us, but one of sacred kuleana, and our community has been diligently
exploring various models and viable alternatives.
Our community's mission is to be good stewards of the land and its resources.
Whatever happens today, we would like to have a stronger and more cooperative
relationship with all the stakeholders, to work together to take good care of the land and
water. In the past, efforts at this have been blocked. We remain open to working with all
stakeholders to move forward in a pono way.
Thank you for this opportunity to testify.
#####
Count^^CletJ<
Karri Ayasanonda <karrija@gmail.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 9:12 AM
County Clerk
Bill 148 County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient Accommodation
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from karrija@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
I am writing in support of the moratorium on visitor accommodations. Over the past recent years, the quality of life for
myself, family, and many other residents has been drastically reduced due to overtourism. Our communities are being
destroyed by tourism and poorly managed development. I have seen family and friends have to move away from Maui
due to lack of housing, lack of good education, and lack of decent healthcare. We have tourists in every
neighborhood. Going to the store or a doctor's appointment has become a headache with too much traffic and crowds
of people. We skip going to places we used to love because there is no parking or there are just too many inconsiderate
people. We are seriously outnumbered by visitors in most places we attempt to go. We no longer can go to restaurants
due to crowds. We are seeing people of the community move away, including teachers, nurses, doctors, and many
other much needed members of the community. Going to the beach is not relaxing as we watch swarms of visitors
trampling over reef and chasing turtles. It has come to the point that my family also is looking at where we can move
our family to that we can live our lives in some type of peace, somewhere that residents are treated better, somewhere
we do not have to constantly write letters and plead with legislators to do what is right. As medical professionals we
feel we deserve better, as does every other person that is part of the Maui community.
Maui does not have the infrastructure for the amounts of visitors that arrive on a daily basis. Tourism is not managed, it
is more of a free-for-all and the island has been overly commercialized. We do not need even one more hotel,
timeshare, or any other property type of accommodation for visitors. Maui needs to decrease the amount of visitors
now before the beauty and resources have been completely depleted and the culture has disappeared. P^se pass the
moratorium on visitor accommodations before it is too late. O i i
C1T
Jrn
m33-
oMahalo,
Karri Ayasanonda RN
Lahaina, Hawaii
I
Ov moo :3z
m-i m'i?
DX m
1
Count^^lerk
TTEU
Vijak Ayasanonda <vijak1@gmaIl.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 8:37 AM
County Clerk
Karri Ayasanonda
Bill 148 County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on
From:
Sent: IW. JAN -6 AM 8: 52To:
Cc:
Subject: on
nty clerk
IYou don't often get email from vijaki @gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
January 5, 2022
I am writing to support the moratorium on Visitor/Transient Accommodations that was passed by the County Council
and vetoed by Mayor Victorino. I request you override his veto. This moratorium is a small but important step in
regulating over-tourism that currently exists.
As an Emergency Physician, I can attest that the lack of housing and infrastructure has impacted the quality of life here
on Maui and becomes a deterrent in attracting and keeping much needed workers that range from healthcare
professionals such as doctors and nurses to those who are considered essentia! workforce.
The Maui Island Plan that recommends limiting tourism would help to provide homes and improve resident access to
our beaches, hikes as well as provide the infrastructure such as water that was rationed in order to provide hotels and
resorts an unlimited supply for pools and landscaping.
2022 is already seeing tourism return to the uncontrolled and unsustainable growth that was seen in 2019 where traffic
was obscene, natural resources such as hikes, beaches, and parks were abused and damaged. Mayor Victorino has
chosen to side with the uncontrolled aspirations of unregulated businesses that take away beach parking, cause severe
congestion on roadways such as Hana, and encourage mainland investors who have now driven up housing costs to the
point where local residents are forced from their homes to mainland locations where living is affordable.
Even as a physician who has lived on island since 2008, 1feel like a second class citizen and am considering leaving Maui
as well since the beauty and Aloha spirit that drew me here is waning quickly. It is replaced with congestion that rivals
the rush hours that remind me of Chicago with the road rage that 1 left long ago.
I am SO tired of having to write letters again and again and testifying again and again for something that seems so
common-sense. I am disappointed in our Mayor and will vote for someone with common sense and a vision to save
Maui. I hope the Maui council will act with this same common sense and desire I feel is needed to preserve what is left
on this once beautiful sanctuary now becoming a new Waikiki. 0
1
Count^£leH< P P r- ■
Barbara Barry <begoniabarry@gmail.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 11:58 AM
County Clerk
Barbara Barry Oi-f'ICE OF THE
2m JAN -7 PH 12: 0
Fwd: Ordinances 22-3, 22-4, 22-5 and 22-9 and I've added 22-£^OUNTY CLERK
From:
Sent: 2
To:
Cc:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from begoniabarry@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
Happy New Year I
I was planning to submit testimony today but I have a dentist appointment this
afternoon, so here is my testimony submitted by email.
Thanks you all for your hard work!
My name is Barbara Barry and I have a small organic farm in Ha'iku.
Ordinance 22-3 I strongly support 'AMENDING RESOLUTION 17-159 TO EXTEND THE
DEADLINE TO COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION OF THE 100 PERCENT AFFORDABLE HANA AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT". Thanks you for supporting this extension today.
22-24
URGING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF HAWAl'1 DLNR
TO PROVIDE A LONG-TERM,RELIABLE,AND AFFORDABLE SOURCE OF WATER FOR COUNTY
DOMESTIC AND AGRICULTURAL USE.
We are still trying to protect Corporate interests from controlling the waters of
E. Maui.
corporation who is basically self monitoring their usage, waste and possible
diversions outside of the approved water allotment from specific approved areas.
This should not be something that is in the hands of a foreign
This precious resource is meant to still flow in the streams that nature created,
to support Hawaiian kalo farmers and provide water to farmers, ranchers, the Kula
Ag park and citizens in upcountry Maui.
1
The county is finally poised to take over the management of E Maui water and to
hopefully regulate it with a non-partisan Citizen board that includes Native
Hawaiians to insure it is being monitored correctly and fairly,
to proceed with these important changes.
The time is now
This battle has raged for far too long with wealthy corporate interests,
influencing our elected officials on a state and county level with Native
Hawaiians, farmers, ranchers, our precious environment and residents taking the
brunt of these maligned decisions.
Perennial streams in Ha'iku are being diverted.
County?
Where is the oversight by the
Trusting a foreign Corporate interest with our sacred public trust, our precious
water, will turn out to be a major mistake like it has everywhere it has already
occured.
Thanks to Council member Sinenci,the many native Hawaiian's, the countless other
water defenders, and the Sierra Club for supporting this resolution.
Please pass this resolution directly out of Council today.
22-5
I support this resolution to "URGING THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO PERMANENTLY REMOVE
AND RELOCATE THE BULK FUEL STORAGE FACILITY UNDERGROUND
STORAGE TANKS LOCATED AT KAPUKAKT(RED HILL,OAHU)
Poisoning the water for millions of people with jet fuel is unacceptable. Water
is Life!
Ordinance 22-9
I strongly support a building moratorium of transient housing on Maui. We need
affordable homes for locals who are working and trying to survive by working 3
jobs and overcrowding their homes with family and friends who cannot afford a
home of their own. As the decision to drill wells in my moku for delivery to the
east side is being debated, the water issue needs to be resolved before adding
more visitor accommodations. That is where the County priority should be at this
time.
There are also unintended consequences by allowing transient accommodations to
continue unabated. To the quality of life, our limited natural resources and our
reefs.
I question how many workers in the building industry are brought in off island?
How many of these building contractors are from Hawaii? Employees brought in from
off shore are taking up valuable housing spots. Please veto the Mayors override.
Back to 22-6
I strongly support stronger oversight to the planning commission for cell phone
tower regulation.
2
Too many of these ugly and potentially dangerous cell phone towers in Haiku are
showing up with little notice or without proper oversight on permitting on
private lands.
Mahalo nui loa,
Barbara Barry
3
Count^£lerk
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3;01 PM
County Clerk
Fwd; Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
SOO-nC'Tl 73
m7>-
oIm-< CN 4
oSent from my iPad -T3n
mm -} wBegin forwarded message: ::vxm Oo
From: Carson Bender <cmbender@nordicpcl.com>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 2:56:03 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin(S)mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Reply-To: cmbender@nordicpcl.com
IYou don't often get email from cmbender@nordicpcl.com. Learn why this is important
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Carson Bender
cmbender@nordicpcl.com
480 Kenolio Rd.
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
RECr;-lVED
7 W TwrrmCount^Cler^
From;
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:46 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
-t 1
orncE Or".-UNTV CLu.i
i n i“
'RKTo:
Subject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Mike Betz <mrbetz@nordicpcl.com>
Sent; Tuesday, January 4, 2022 2:14:57 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
IYou don't often get email from mrbetz@nordicpcl.com. Learn why this is important
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Mike Betz
mrbetz@nordicpcl.com
95-205 Paehia Place
Mililani, Hawaii 96789
1
Countjr^le^ PPrrrjWjrp
eliza brady <ezbjoy@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 6:36 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 county communication 22-9
From:
Sent: mi M -6 AH 8: 16
To:
crncu OF THE
■:OUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from ezbjoy@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
This is the second time I am voicing my opinion on this issue (re: Bill 148 County Communication 22-9) Please OVERRIDE
the Mayor's veto of this bill. There is a great need to MANAGE tourism in order to maintain the quality of life of the
residents on Maui.
Mahalo
Eliza Brady
Makawao
1
Count^Clerk
R E viz ^. I c. u
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:43 PM
County Cierk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
im JAN -7 AH 7: 56To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Makana Brito <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:15:46 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin(S)mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Makana Brito
mkbritoSI @gmail.com
567 S. Kamehameha Avenue
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
1
Count^CleHc
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:01 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To:
Subject:
OO
O
c 3:
50m
r—*
73
m3=r
Sent from my iPad /-V.
I
1o--<
Begin forwarded message: O TJ. O -n
mm -iFrom: Tyler Brooks <tjbrooks@nordicpcI.com>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 2:59:47 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Reply-To: tjbrooks@nordicpcl.com
oo7;m
IYou don't often get email from tjbrooks@nordicpcl.com. Learn why this is important
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Tyler Brooks
tjbrooks@nordicpcl.com
2641 Moolio Place
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
Count^£lerk
KENNETH K MARTINEZ BURGMAIER <jazzontv@aol.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 4;46 PM
County Clerk
Save Maui! Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9  1VETO THE MAYOR!
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
OO
OI 73You don't often get email fromjazzontv@aol.com, Learn vi/hv this is important
Save Maui and our local Maui lifestyle before it's too late! m
50 OI
rn\_n
It's time to stop any additional visitor accommodations development in Maui Nui!
IT!rri
Ora CO
PLEASE SUPPORT THE VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS
MORATORIUM AND OVERRIDE THE MAYOR'S VETO!
It's time to take a stand against development and take a stand of true Aloha for all the
citizens of Maui!
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9 i
MAHALO for helping to protect Maui’s future!
With warm Aloha,
Kenneth K Martinez Burgmaier
Sent w/ Aloha
KENNETH K. MARTINEZ BURGMAIER
Director/Producer/Executive Producer/DP
Emmy, Sundance, Global Film Festivals, Billboard Music Awards, American Advertising Federation & Hawai'i Recording
Academy Winning Productions
808-573-5530
Mobile 808-283-9070
www.JazzAlleyTV.com
www.HawaiiONTV.com
www.BiglslandJazzandBluesFestival.com
www.MauiJazzandBluesFestival.com
1
RECEIVED
January 5, 2022
Wl JAN -6 AH 8- 17
Aloha Chair Lee and Council Members,
OFFICE OF THE
1 would like to take this opportunity to express my concerns bh BiH148'aTid why 1
support the mayor's veto. I am opposed to Bill 148 for several reasons; however, I
do support the intention of the Bill regarding the number of visitors that come to
visit Maui. Having experienced visitors with rude, unruly and with entitled
attitudes, I feel that there can be other ways to address this instead of a
Moratorium. I have heard comments from previous testifiers who support Bill
148, such as "The hotels have deep pockets so they can wait 2 years" however, in
1990's a Moratorium was passed by Mayor Lingle for new construction projects
for Maui County. The effects of that were detrimental to the Blue collar working
class community and affected mom and pop businesses that are no longer in
operation today. So, a Moratorium today, especially during the pandemic would
negatively impact Maui's economy. With a Moratorium, in 2 years' time there
will be many lay-offs, reduction in hours, and eventually some people will be
unemployed. We know there are a ripple effects from job loss - theft, illegal drug
use, domestic violence is just a few. We don't have 2 years!
It was mentioned that there would be alternatives that will assist our blue-collar
working-class members with new employment opportunities, but I have yet to
see or hear of anything being proposed. Just hearsay with no results.
It would be nice to see the mayor and council members working together in
finding solutions to what we are experiencing on Maui Island. Instead, there is a
lot of division between the county government that trickles out to the
community. Being born and raised in Maui, I now see that there is a "Old Maui"
and a "New Maui." I understand that many who came to Maui make it their home
but are always wanting change. They want to accommodate their lifestyle that
does not align the values of our "Old Maui" residents. We come from a
generation of plantation and cattle ranch workers. Visitor Industry workers and
construction workers. There was a time when Maui was able to sustain itself
when we had Haleakala Dairy, the egg farm, sugar cane, pineapples and HOTELS.
But "New Maui" residents settled in could not and did not adapt to the smell of
the dairy or egg farm or smoke from the sugar cane and called for the shut-down
of these industries. Unfortunately, now all we have are the Visitor industry,
construction industry and some cattle ranches and an ongoing need for
affordable housing. You can't buy a house without  agood paying job with steady
income.
It's time we sit down and break bread to find solutions. In conclusion, please
support Mayor Victorino on his Veto of Bill 148, not for him but for the engine
that drives this community-the working-class women and men of Maui county.
Dwight K Burns
Hawaii Operating Engineers Industry Stabilization Fund
Maui Island Representative
Count^£lerk
Andy Chenoweth <skitracksurf@gmail.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 4:46 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from skitracksurf@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
Please accept this as my testimony in support of Bill 148 and my testimony urging the County Council to override the
Mayor's veto of this bill.
It is time to put the brakes on tourism!
Mahalo,
Andy Chenoweth100 Mahiai Place
Makawao, HI 96768
Cell: 503-819-3131
Email: skitracksurf(d)amail.com
oo
9-^ 73m
o>
ri
O
hi -H rn
ox=m CO
1
Count^^lerk f-\ i~ --●y H- i
Scott Crawford <scott@aloha.net>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 8;59 PM
County Clerk
22-4 Support
From:
Sent: im JAN -6 AM 8: 16
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from scott@aloha.net. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha Madame chair and members of the Council,
I would like to express my support for resolution 22-4, and urge the Council to support this resolution and recommend
to the Mayor to enter into a long-term lease for East Maui water supply.
Mahalo,
Scott Crawford
Hana
1
Count^CleH< RFCFiVFn
From:
Sent:
Judith Culler <judithculler@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 8:19 PM
County Clerk
Support for moratorium
Zl}?2 JAH -6 AM & 16
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email fromjudithculler@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please support the visitors accommodations moratorium.
1
Count^^lerk
peahijen@hawaii.rr.com
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 6:05 PM
County Clerk
Override the Mayor’s Veto of Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
i.' You don't often get email from peahijen@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important
January 4, 2022
Honorable members of The Maui Council,
The only reason to build more hotels is to satisfy the greed of those who will be profiting from them. Creating more
menial labor jobs will not enhance the lives of those who live here and love Maui, not as a commodity for making
money, but as our beautiful home. We don't have the infrastructure to deal with more cars and more people and
creating the infrastructure would ruin what's left of our Maui nei.
Some people will never have enough and they don't have any trouble sacrificing our lives and sense of community to get
more. We don't have to allow that to happen.
Thank you for caring enough to serve on our Maui Council. Please override the Mayor's Veto of Bill 148.
Sincerely,
Michael Cummins and Jennifer Shannon
Haiku ooO
c 31
“im
73miz.
oI
m-<
O0^1
mm -H --4
o7^ m CO
1
County Clerk r~ ^ r" r~\^ — } |i m 1_J'
Christina Currie <ccryder50505070@gmail.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 6:06 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 communication #22-9
From:
Sent: mi JAN -5 AH 7: 48
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from ccryder50505070@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha,
I am a 20 year resident of Maui and would like to comment on the Mayor's Veto of the moratorium Bill 148.
I think it is appalling that the needs of the residents of Maui are overlooked with one fell swoop.
The Moratorium is invaluable to the residents of our community. The type of growth in tourism that I have witnessed
has negatively impacted my quality of life. The moratorium gives Maui a chance to take a step back and take  adeep
breath to better assess the next step for quality growth.
Mahalo
Christina Currie
Lahaina Resident
1
County Clerk
RET LU/V i.-
michael dAddario <shivadario@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 2:27 PM
County Clerk
Visitors accommodation miretorium
From:
Sent: im JAN -5 PH i|: 19To:
Subject:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from shivadario@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Council MEMBERS
On request that you support the Visitors accommodation moretorium and override mayor Victerino's veto.
Thank you
Michael Daddario
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
1
RECPEiVEDCounty Clerk
From:
Sent;
Grace Delos Reyes <graciedelosreyes@me.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 6:44 AM
County Clerk
Tamara A. Paltin
CC-22-9
mi JAN -7 AN 7: 57
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Cc:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from graciedelosreyes@me.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
lama long-time resident of Lahaina. I am tired of watching the local residents be pushed out because of the
gentrification of the lifestyle. I am demanding that the County Council override the mayor's veto on the transient
building moratorium, CC-22-9.
Thank you for your time,
Grace Delos Reyes
1
Count^Clerk
kalei D <kaleiwaa@yahoo.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:31 PM
County Clerk
Tamara A. Paltin
CC-22-9
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from kaleiwaa@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha
My name is Jeremy DelosReyes and I am a 46 year mulit-generational resident of Lahaina. In my lifetime I have seen our
local residents pushed out and the gentrification of our lifestyle! I am demanding that the county council overide the
mayor's veto on transient building moratorium CC-22-9.
Mahalo
Jeremy
Sent from my iPhone
GOO-n
c -n m-“OH OIm '  1 *
i  > 3
m -H
XX
7^ m
“O
rn
a
1
Count^Clerk R£C*.;vep
Susan Douglas <sd3@hawaii.rr.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 2:47 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
From:
Sent: 2022 JAN -5 PH 4: 19
To:
Subject: OFFICE Or THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from sd3@hawaii.rr.com. Learn whv this is important
Dear County Council.
PLEASE OVERRIDE THE MAYOR'S VETO RE HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.
A moratorium would give us time to address Maui's over tourism issues and Maui Tomorrow strongly supports
this bill
Warmest Mahalo and Aloha!
Susan Douglas
84A Iliwai Loop
(that’s spelled ILIWAI)
Kihei, Maui, HI 96753
808 879 1112 (You can call 24/7, if you get my machine leave a long message. NO texts please.)
sd3@hawaii.rr.com
1
Count^^leH<
lindy duncan <ldgotpaint@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 7:49 AM
County Clerk
to all Council Members: Moratorium Testimony
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from ldgotpaint@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
I support the Visitor Accommodations Moratorium.  Istrongly urge all Council Members to override the Mayor's Veto of
the 2 year Visitor Accommodations Moratorium. It is so important to take time now to address and assess this difficult
growth issue facing Maui. We all want a strong economy but not at the cost of unlimited tourism. There are other ways
for Maui to make the dollars needed. In two years at the current rate of growth much more damage can be
done. Please support the override.
Respectfully submitted,
Linda Duncan
Kihei resident and homeowner
OO
O "n 73C"n m
OIm mKn
Oo . {
mm —! OO
7s m Oo●o
1
received
M JAH -5
OFFICE OF
COUNTY
PM 1
the
clerk
January 5, 2022
8RE: Bill 148, County Communication 22-9
Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
Email: county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
I am writing this letter in support AGAIN of the moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui, that
was passed by the County Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino. PLEASE override his veto! This
moratorium is a crucial step toward remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are seeing
here.
The Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of
residents in order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, and quality of life for residents--all of
which would improve the visitor experience as well.
The year 2019 was already a year of uncontrolled growth, fueled by the tourism industry. Promises
were made by leaders during the early part of the pandemic to improve on the tourism experience for
both visitors and residents. Residents were promised that the goal would be to decrease the number of
tourists while protecting the islands. Since October of 2020, those promises have been completely
forgotten by our leaders, who proudly announce that the goal of reaching 2019 numbers has been met
and now exceeded.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is
a threat to the health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
Our island resources are very limited. Our inadequate sewage treatment, water, and landfills are not
meant for this level of use. We just finished months of a of a severe water shortage, yet only Upcountry
residents were affected, not tourists. While my family's yard dried up and died due to not watering it,
the hotels are literally sucking up water as if there is no restriction. While sewage is discharged into our
oceans, tourists are overcrowding our beaches and cruelly abusing our wildlife (1 am thinking about
honu and dolphins right now). Our fishing industry is endangered by the abuse the ocean environment is
experiencing.
On Maui, tourists do not stay in the tourist areas, but drive all over the island, causing huge traffic
congestion—and this is despite the rental car shortage. Tourists don't even think twice about using up
resources meant for residents, such as UHauis! I have seen horrific pictures of the road to Hana being
blocked by tourists who choose to park on the road, blocking traffic, because of lack of parking.
Residents are literally being told that we do not count and that the tourism industry is all-powerful. Our
mayor has not showed any support of controlling tourism, including vetoing the last proposed
moratorium for south and west Maui and vetoing the affordable housing bill. He goes out of his way to
please the big money brought in by the tourism industry and mainland investors. He has made it clear
that residents are second class citizens to tourists. It is the responsibility of government officials to
ensure that there is adequate affordable housing for those who are essential to making our community
work (health care professionals, teachers, police, social workers, restaurant workers, grocery/retail
workers and yes, workers in tourism), not to incentivize nonresidents' profiting off tourism.
Residents here sacrifice a great deal financially to live here and deserve to be able to enjoy the beaches,
hikes and parks. Instead, there is no room for residents on any of these. The majority of residents here
do not depend at all on the tourist industry—yet all of us are made to sacrifice for it. For me, it is about
more than a financial sacrifice, as this is not only my birthplace but also that of my ancestors.
Hardworking residents are trying not to chased out by greedy leaders who put short-term profit first.
Our economy needs to be diversified. Our children need to be taught skills that will help them to
succeed in society, rather than just to serve tourists. We need a moratorium on future visitor
accommodations while solutions can be implemented, including leadership that supports resident lives
over the tourism industry.
Residents are SO tired of having to write letters again and again and testifying again and again for
something that seems so common-sense. 1 am so disappointed in our Mayor, who despite being a Maui
Boy, so obviously supports the moneyed tourist industry over residents' quality of life. I voted for him
and feel terribly betrayed. He has sold us out, and 1 for one will do all I can to ensure that someone who
supports residents' quality of life will replace him in the next election.
I appreciate the members of the Maui County Council greatly. With few exceptions, you are the leaders
who put residents and the 'aina first.
Mahalo Piha,
K.a'1 liupcitA-te
Kai Duponte, MSW
Count^kHc Ri^C'iiVaD
Jenna Fish <jrf73@nau.edu>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 4:49 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 and Communication 22-9
From:
Sent: 2022 JAN -6 AH 8U6
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from jrf73@nau.edu. Learn why this is important
Hi there.
I was born & raised on Maui and have lived here my entire life. As a kama'aina of this sacred island, I STRONGLY support
and encourage the overturn of the mayor's veto on Bill 148 and Communication 22-9. It is and has been incredibly
devastating to witness our island being handed over to tourists without any consideration of locals and of kama'aina.
Please, PLEASE, overturn the mayor's veto and put locals first.
Thank you.
Jenna Fish
1
Countj^Gerk
From:
Sent:
Amy Fonarow <afonarow@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 9:22 AM
County Clerk
Please Support Bill 148 and Override Mayor Victorino's Veto
To: oc 73O-TiSubject:
z;oH
m
oIm mV/1
[You don't often get email from afonarow@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
OO as-
r~ mm oAloha Maui County Councilmembers, 4=t; m
I work in ocean conservation, and I support the moratorium on transient accommodation development.
I write to you today to respectfully request that when County Communication 22-9 is raised, you continue to support the
moratorium, and choose to override Mayor Victorino's December 22nd veto of Bill 148.
There are ways to make tourism simultaneously sustainable and profitable, in order to have the time to explore and
discuss those ways, we must stop and examine our current accommodations and the numbers of visitors we have
already made room for, and compare those numbers with the environmental, cultural, and societal carrying capacity of
Maui County before considering adding more room for more visitors.
Please use this moment in time to stop and think about the future without considering money at all. What will be
important to the Islands twenty years from now? One hundred?
Thank you for your thoughtful consideration.
Mahalo nui and malama pono.
Amy Fonarow
1
Count^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Gina M. Young
Friday, January 7, 2022 8:27 AM
County Clerk
Testimony re Reso 22-4
BWS Support of East Maui long-term leases Jan 6 2022.pdf
To:
Subject:
Attachments:
Aloha,
Please include the attached letter as testimony for today's meeting. goO-T-1
C“n
H
7)
Thank you, moIm●< ●T1Gina Young for CM Sinenci
m X
rn
m00
Ors3
1
n
BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY
COUNTY OF MAUI
200 SOUTH HIGH STREET
WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAI'I 96793
www.mauicountv.Qov/water
January 6, 2022
Honorable Michael P. Viotorino
Mayor, County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
Dear Mayor Viotorino:
SUBJECT: MAUI COUNTY BOARD OF WATER SUPPLY SUPPORT OF THE
COUNTY OF MAUI ACQUIRING THE LONG-TERM WATER LEASES
FOR THE NAHIKU, KE'ANAE, HONOMANU, AND HUELO LICENSE
AREAS
On December 16, 2021, the Board of Water Supply (BWS) received extensive
testimony from the public, as well as presentations from Maui County Managing Director
Sandy Baz and Maui County Council Agriculture and Public Trust Committee Chair Shane
Sinenci. Following the presentations and testimonies, and per the agenda, the BWS
discussed Recommended Immediate Actions (page 81) and the Recommended Near-Term
Actions (page 82) from the Board of Water Supply Temporary Investigative Group (TIG)
Report, which was approved unanimously by the Board of Water Supply on December 19,
2019.
The Board subsequently approved by unanimous vote, submitting this letter of support
to the Mayor and the Maui County Council, encouraging the County of Maui to pursue the
feasibility of acquiring the leases for the Nahiku, Ke'anae, Honomanu, and Huelo license
areas through an intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Land and Natural
Resources (DLNR), as recommended in our 2019 TIG Report. To this effect, the Board
recommends contacting DLNR as soon as possible to determine next steps for doing so.
‘(By Water JLCfn^/iings TindLife
Thank you very much for your time and consideration in this matter.
Sincerely^
Dean K. Frampton
Chair, Maui County Board of Water Supply
Sandy Baz, Managing Director
Maui County Council Members
Jeffrey T. Pearson, Director
Helene Kau, Deputy Director
cc:
Count^^CleHc
TTEU
Stan Franco <stanfranco9114@gmail.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:10 PM
County Clerk
Council Meeting of January 7, 2022
From:
Sent: JAN -6 PH 19To:
Subject:
OFRCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Dear Council Chair Lee and Council Members,
I will not be able to be at your virtual meeting tomorrow. However, 1 would like to make a comment on item CC-22-9 -
the moratorium on tourist accommodations.
First, I want to say that I have been on three community panels on the future of Maui County - Decisions Maui, Maui Nui
Task Force, and the General Plan Advisory Committee. A major concern for each planning group was that Maui County
would not be adversely impacted by overgrowth of Maui County. The common theme of the planning groups was to
keep Maui, Maui for the local people.
Second, the Mayor's argument that the moratorium "may encourage residential units into short-term rentals." This is
true right now and that is the reason that we have hired staff to oversee this problem to assure compliance with our
laws to prevent the move of residential units into illegal short-term rentals. We need to make sure
enforcement happens.
Third, Maui is a beautiful place and It is world famous as a wonderful place to visit and live. And people will want to
come here regardless of our policies. When I worked with the late Mayor Elmer Cravalho, his vision as shared with me
was that the tourists would be focused in specific areas - Kaanapali, Wailea and Kapalua and would be staying in hotels.
Allowing short-term visitor accommodations in residential communities was not the original vision.
In summary, I believe that the people of Maui County want us to reassess the original vision on how the tourism industry
will make life better for Maui County residents. And therefore, 1 ask you, the Maui County Council, to override the
Mayor's veto and take the next two years to reset the vision of how the tourist industry will make life better for the
residents of Maui County.
Thank you.
Stan Franco
214-3575
1
Countj^Clei^
Michael Gach <mrgach2@gmail.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 11:03 PM
County Clerk
Support for Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from mrgach2@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Support for Bill 148
To the County Clerk —
CS9
ooO-n
C3I
50-im
73We are writing to submit my testimony in support of
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9 m7^.
o\ rn\-n-<Thank you, Oo mMichael & Barbara Gach
2198 Auina Place
Kihei, HI 96753
mrqach@att.net
rn a73X
7;rn CO
1
REC._i-
!VED
im m -7 AM 8:01
January 6, 2022 HAWAII HOTEL/"*
^  -1 , _ .^FrlCE OF THE ' '
Councilmcrnbcr Alice Lee, Chair Q (j N1 C L ^ P
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Femandez, Vic^ tnair
Members of the Maui County Council
Support of CC 22-9 regarding Veto of Bill 148 ("A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY CODE, DECLARING A
MOIMTORIUM ON NEW TlUVNSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS ON MAUI")
Hearing date: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00AM
RE:
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
My name is Jerry Gibson, President of Hawaii Hotel Alliance ("HHA"). I am testifying
in STRONG SUPPORT of CC 22-9 regarding a veto of Bill 148 which seeks to create an island
wide moratorium which prohibits the issuance of any permit under Title 19 for two (2) years.
We support the Mayors veto of Bill 148 due to the economic impacts of the moratorium and
share his concerns with the lack of public input on the substantial changes made at second
reading.
The purpose of Bill 148 is to establish a moratorium to reduce the number of visitors to
comply with visitor to resident ratio specified in Chapter 2.80B of the Maui Island Plan by pausing
the increase of transient accommodations. However, there is no evidence which indicates that
pausing the development of transient accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to
Maui. Bill 148 will not stop visitors from flying to Maui. Rather, visitors will continue to travel to
Maui and will seek out other accommodations even though transient accommodations are limited.
It is concerning that such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first
showing transient accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts.
HHA agrees with the Mayor that visitors will seek accommodations in residential and
apartment districts further impacting local residents. For instance, visitors will stay in
accommodations such as the increasing number short-term vacation rentals ("STR"), which are
the fastest-growing segment within Maui's visitor accommodations industry. These STRs burden
residential neighborhoods and long-term apartment inventory directly impacting the quality of life
for Maui residents. The data shows that the number of hotel rooms on Maui has decreased by 16%
from 8,577 in 2000 to 7,251 in 2020, however, the average number of visitors arriving on Maui
per day rose by 25% from 2000 to 2015. Thus, it is clear that the increase in visitors to Maui is
directly correlated to the growing number of STRs. The moratorium fails to address the illegal
STRs that continue to permeate residential neighborhoods on Maui. If the purpose of the bill is to
ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of illegal
short-term vacation rental units that are allowed.
In addition, as further detailed in the attached legal memorandum, HHA has legal concerns
with the proposed moratorium as it violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In short, Bill 148 is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest as Maui Island Plan 4.2.3 is
not unenforceable. Likewise, HHA shares the Mayor's concerns on the lack of public input on the
substantial changes made at second and final reading. The public was deprived of the opportunity
to weigh in on the amendments which included an alteration of the affordable housing exception
ratio.
Moreover, Section 2 as currently drafted is grossly unfair to existing projects undergoing
permit application review. Under Section 2 the moratorium will be applicable to permits currently
being reviewed that have not received their final discretionary approval. Essentially, applications
that have already expended a substantial amount of resources and time will be halted in the current
step of the application review process once tlie moratorium is passed. It is clear, the amended
Section 2 is patently unfair to applicants that have properly filed and applied for a permit prior to
the implementation of the moratorium. In addition. Section 2 as currently drafted undermines the
Planning Commission's recommendation that the moratorium not impact current permit
applications.
Furthermore, HHA agrees with the Mayor's position that Bill 148 will result in substantial
negative economic impacts for Maui County. The visitor accommodations industry provides
employment to thousands of Maui residents which make up approximately 75% of all private-
sector jobs on Maui. Bill 148 will result in the loss of much-needed employment opportunities for
local Maui residents who work in construction, tourism, and other related industries. In fact, if
such a moratorium is implemented, there will be a loss of hundreds of construction jobs and
hundreds more hotel jobs during the two-year period alone. For example, the proposed renovation
of the Grand Wailea which will be paused by the moratorium will result in the loss of:
215 construction jobs that will be created each year over four years, which generate
$46 million in earnings and $7 million in new state taxes.
1.
2. 245 additional permanent tourism jobs on Maui, equating to $12 million in
earnings per year and $2 million in state taxes. These jobs will be in key areas,
including management, food and beverage, accounting and at the front desk.
3. An additional $650,000 per year in property taxes paid to the County of Maui -
amounting to a 12.4% increase to the cuiTent $5.2 million.
4. Increased annual contributions from Grand Wailea to the newly established County
Transient Accommodations Tax and more than $20 million in Transient
Accommodations Tax revenue for the state.
The loss of new jobs and economic impact will be far more substantial with the prevention
of future transient accommodations. In turn the moratorium will contribute more to the outward
migration of local families.
Lastly, Bill 148 will discourage future capital investment in Maui. It is concerning that the
County would seek to implement policy that would deter future investment in Maui as the County
continues to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. The County will risk forgoing substantial
amounts of future investments, tax revenues and job creation for Maui’s economy moving forward.
On balance, the unintended consequences, including the negative impact on our economy,
far outweigh any potential, yet unsubstantiated reduction in the number of visitors this moratorium
will cause. In addition, the identified legal concerns and lack of transparency justify the Mayor's
veto of the measure. Indeed, there are far more effective ways to reduce the amount of visitors on
Maui without such a far reaching measure. Accordingly, HHA respectfully asks the Council to
uphold CC 22-9 vetoing Bill 148.
Mahalo for your consideration.
3V
Jerry Gibson, President
Hawaii Hotel Association
SULLIVAN MEHEULAi LEE RECEIVED
m JAN -7 AN 8: 01
A LIMITED LiABILTY LAW PARTNERSHIP
January 5. 2022
OKriCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
MEMORANDUM
TO: Hawaii Hotel Alliance
William Meheula, Esq.
Legality of Bill 148 - Maui County Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
FROM:
RE:
This memorandum summarizes the legal flaws of Bill 148 (2021), A Bill for An
Ordinance Establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County Code. Declaring a Moratorium On
New Transient Accommodations On Maui.
Background
On Friday, December 3, 2021, the Maui County Council (“Council”) resumed
consideration of Bill 148, and adopted three amendments - two of which overruled the
guidance of the Maui Planning Commission - before voting to waive Rule 19c to pass
Bill 148 on final reading with substantive amendments.
As discussed in item 3 below, despite the recommendations of the Planning Commission
that the moratorium not apply to project applications that were deemed complete by the
Planning Department, the Council amended Section  2to apply to any project that did not
receive final permit approvals. The revised language has considerable due process
implications by halting projects that have been in development for years in reliance on
existing law. In addition, this substantial amendment was made by waiver of the
Council’s procedural rules and floor vote without further opportunity for public
testimony in disregard of Charter section 4-2(1) that requires two readings for a proposed
ordinance.
Substantive Changes Adopted by the Council on December 3
1. Section 19.98.040 (F) was amended to read: “Any development that includes
new housing units built, at a ratio of at least one housing unit for every one
transient accommodations units, rounding up to the nearest whole number, of the
total number of new transient accommodations.”
This substantive change reverts the affordable housing exception to the moratorium back
to a 1:1 ratio, overturning the recommended language of the Maui Planning Commission,
who had sought to maintain current County policy requiring developers of new vacation
accommodations to also provide new workforce housing units equal to at least 25% of the
total number of new visitor accommodation units proposed. A previous version of the
measure set the ratio at 1:3.
Pacific Guardian Center ● Makai Tower ● 733 Bishop Street, Suite 2900 ● Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Phone: 808.599.9555 ● Fax: 808.533.2467 ● www.SMLhawaii.com
Mayor Michael P. Victorino
1/6/22
Page 2
2. Section 19.98.040 (F)(4) was amended to read: “the new affordable housing
units must be physically constructed or may be converted from transient
accommodation units.”
This substantive amendment precludes developers from purchasing credits to fulfill their
obligations under Section 19.98.040(F).
3. Section 2 was amended to read: “this ordinance takes effect on approval and
applies to any new transient accommodation that has not received its final
discretionary approval.”
The intent of the amendment is to clarify that the moratorium applies to applications
currently in the process of receiving a determination of final discretionary approval.
Chair Lee, joined by Councilmembers Sugimura and Kama, opposed the amendment
based on equity and fairness for applicants who invest significant time and resources in
preparing applications to the County that would allow for the construction of new visitor
accommodations. The opposing Councilmembers correctly noted that equity and fairness
were the basis of the Maui Planning Commission’s recommendation that all applications
filed prior to the effective date of Bill 148 should be exempt from the moratorium.
Bill 148 Violates Due Process
The third amendment violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
because the Council misused the General Plan that was developed after input from state
and county agencies and the general public as required under Charter section 8-8.5 as a
means to eliminate the Planning Commission’s right to rule on hotel room addition
applications.
Here, the Council’s reliance on Maui Island Plan section 4.2.3 as its justification for Bill
148 is an improper misuse of or revision to the Maui Island Plan. Section 19.98.010
states: “The purpose of the moratorium established by this ordinance is to comply with
the Maui island plan, by pausing increasing transient accommodations and tourism. ”
However, Maui Island Plan section 4.2.3 only provides an aspirational objective and not a
mandate:
Objective 4.2.3 states: “Maximize residents’ benefits from the visitor industry, a.
Promote a desirable island population by striving to not exceed an island-wide
visitor population of roughly 33 percent of the resident population.”
Thus, Bill 148 is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest as Maui Island Plan
4.2.3 is unenforceable. In addition, the bill is not factually justified as the number of
hotel rooms has declined over that last twenty years and are built in areas designated for
hotel use. See, e.g., New Jersey Shore Builders ’n v. Township Committee of Dover
Tp., 468 A.2d 742 (N.J. 1983) (holding that a moratorium on issuance of building pemiits
Pacific Guardian Center ● Makai Tower ● 733 Bishop Street, Suite 2900 ● Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Phone: 808,599.9555 ● Fax: 808.533.2467 ● www.SMLhawaii.com
Mayor Michael P. Victorino
1/6/22
Page 3
for conslruclion ofmulti-family housing and for conversion of motels into condominiums
was invalid due to lack of factual justification for moratorium in regard to problems of
water supply and water pressure and explaining that “[t]he situation must be exigent, the
causes must be adequately explored, and it must be demonstrated that other less extreme
solutions have been investigated and found to be not feasible. None of these requisite
proofs is before the court. Stripped to its essentials, the ordinance is nothing more than an
expedient legislative reaction”)-
Note that Maui residents would have standing to challenge the bill as a violation of their
procedural due process rights because the Council side-stepped the Charter process to
weaponize the effect of Maui Island Plan section 4.2.3 and thus, denied the public’s role.
And of course, hotels that have pending applications before the Planning Commission
have standing to challenge the bill as a violation of Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Even if the Council characterized the moratorium as a revision to the general plan,
Charter section 8-8.6 requires referral to the Planning Commission and if it disapproves
of the proposed revision or fails to make its report with 120 days, the Council could only
pass such revision by affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the Council’s entire
membership.
Very truly yours,
SULLIVAN MEHEULA LEE, LLLP
William Meheula
Pacific Guardian Center ● Makai Tower ● 733 Bishop Street, Suite 2900 ● Honolulu, Hawai'i 96813
Phone; 808.599.9555 ● Fax: 808.533.2467 ● www.SMLhawaii.com
CountyClerk
R C 0 il i Q D
From:
Sent:
Julienne Givot <dtjulienne@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 5:51 PM
County Clerk; Kelly King
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
mi M -6 AH 8: 16
To:
Subject: PFnCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from dtjulienne@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
I fully support the County Council In overturning the mayor's veto of Bill 148.
Mahalo,
Julienne
Rev Julienne Givot
KThei resident
510-813-4114
1
RECuiVEDCount^Cletj<
M -5 PH '9N. Goode <innerlightmaui@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 2:46 PM
County Clerk
no more visitor rooms
From:
Sent:
To:
OPFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from innerlightmaui@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
vote to override the mayors vetoPLEASE
do not allow any more visitor rooms on Maui
PLEASE ..
also please stop all the illegal guest rooms and homes
THERE SHOULD BE NO TOURIST IN ANY RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD
42 year resident
1
Count^£lerk
TvfcT)From:
Sent:
William Greenleaf <bgreenleaf.maui@yahoo.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 9:34 AM
County Clerk
Visitor Accommodations Moratorium
mi JAN -6 AH 9: 38To:
Subject:
OFriCE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Councilmembers:
The Moratorium passed by Council, Bill 148, which would establish a Moratorium on
new Transient Accommodations on Maui, and pause further development of new
hotels, timeshares, short-term rental homes, and transient vacation rental units, for
two years or until tourism management measures are implemented.
This moratorium would give us time to address Maui's overtourism issues.
Bill 148 is an important response to a tourism industry that has grown in size and
scope to a degree that residents lives are impacted severely in a negative
manner. Now that we have a chance for a reset, Bill 148 gives us 2 years
to implement tourism management measures.
Please vote to override Mayor's veto.
Bill Greenleaf
Greenleaf Farm
1
Count^£le^ /rn
William Greenleaf <bgreenleaf.maui@yahoo.cor^ .... »u o *50
Thursday, January 6, 2022 9:22 AM "*
County Clerk
Sinenci Water Reso OFFICE OF THE
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
COUNTY CLERK
Aloha Councilmembers:
Maui County needs to own the EMI water delivery system.
This is an opportunity to create a crown jewel in the future of Maui Island.
Entities like A&B or Mahi Pono's pension fund owner or Trinitas care about profits and water is
about people. Sadly, in today's world, it's unrealistic to expect them to restore the water shed to
a productive state or to spend budget to update the system so water is not lost in transport.
As long as these corporations have their profit needs met, other needs such as cultural needs are
ignored. That's a fact with 100 years of experience. This fact is a cornerstone for the reason to
buy and operate the EMI.
Costs will be discussed as if they are a stumbling block or a burden. The Water Dept is sitting on
a multi-million dollar fund that has not been used for building reservoirs, transmission lines,
etc. Those dollars along with delivery charges and possibly a bond will pay for the acquisition and
pay for the entire system to be upgraded.
Maui Island water is as pure as any water in the world. An updated system that provides
abundant water for cultural farming, stream life and all other island needs is an act that all citizens
will support and be grateful about.
Maui has many jewels...owning our water delivery system makes all of Maui's jewels sparkled a
more brightly.
Mahalo for your unending efforts on behalf of the citizens and the Aina.
Bill Greenleaf
Greenleaf Farm
1
Count^^£lerk
From:
Sent:
Christina Hartman <hartmanmaui@gmail.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 1:21 PM
County Clerk
BILL 148 Communication 22-9
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from hartmanmaui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha
I am writing as a Maui citizen to support BILL 148 County Communication 22-9 in FAVOR of a
Moratorium on all new Transient Accommodations, and pause further development of new hotels,
timeshares, and vacation rental homes.
Christina Hartman
Kula, Maui, Hawaii
Oo0*nC m
2;oH
X)3>- j < !
oIm-< Ov
On <
m m
D/s rn NJ
1
Count^^let^ RuCCiVuD
2022 JAN -5 AH 7= 48
From:
Sent:
Debbie Hollomon <debbie@sailmaui.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 11:21 PM
County Clerk
In support of moratorium Bill 148
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
OUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from debbie@sailmaui.com. Learn whv this is important
Maui doesn't need any further development certainly not for visitor accommodations. We had an opportunity with the
pandemic to put energy and money into bolstering local businesses and our island community! With the grants it
seemed like that was starting to happen, and less tourists felt so nicel Even for our visitors. Let's please keep that
momentum. The reason for vetoing this bill is absurd. There's no shortage of places for tourists to stay — the focus
needs to be on educating folks how to be good guests when they arrive making sure the people who live here have a
decent standard of life and the fragile ecosystem we depend on remains intact! Not scrambling to keep paving paradise.
I support bill 148 and an override of Victorino's veto.
Deborah Jean Hollomon
g --- g
_0] / @saltkissed
3] / @debbiejean
photography
808.343.1 504
debbiejean.com
hello@debbieJean.com
s\
Sent from my iPhone
1
Count^Cler^
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:44 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
im M -7 AH 7: 56
To:
OFFiCE OF TNGSubject:
COUNTY CLERK
Get Outlook for iOS
From: HEIDI HOLLORAIM <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 7:16:04 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Pa!tin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
1 urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
HEIDI HOLLORAN
heidiholloran@gmail.com
SOOWWakea Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
1
Count^lerk
From:
Sent:
Ellen B. McKinley
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:19 PM
County Clerk
FW: 4 years plus...Broken down skate park in Kihei (CC 22-4)
To:
Subject:
Forwarding the email below, per constituent's request, as testimony regarding CC 22-4, pertaining to
the vendor Grindline Skateparks, Inc.'s time extension to Contract C7153-1 for Kalama Park Vertical
Ramp Repairs for Department of Parks and Recreation Job No. P20/007 for 1/7/22 Council Meeting.
OO
O "n
cn
2;o
70
moI
1 nCN
oo ~o <-nEllen McKinley, Executive Assistant
Office of Councilmember Kelly T. King
South Maul Residency
Office: 808.270.7108
200 South High Street, 8'" Floor, Wailuku HI 96793
http://mauicountv.us/
mm —i
t; m
\jj
Oto
Now is the time to provide input to update the South Maui Community Plan! httDs://southmaui.wearemaui.ora/aet-
involved/
SOUTH MAUI
From: Donna Howard <alohadmhoward@hotmail.com>
Date: Sunday, December 26, 2021 at 7:23 AM
To: Kelly King <Kellv.King(5)mauicountv.us>
Subject: 4 years plus...Broken down skate park in Kihei
Aloha Kelly
Auwe! This Kalama Park Kihei site may be a reason Maui hasn't sent any skateboarders to the Olympics.©I've been
walking by this wreck for at least 4 years. Instead of fixing it, the county has put a fence around it.
What's up with that?
Let's get the funding to fix...maybe Kihei Rotary can help repair.
1
No excuses wanted...just some action in 2022 please!!
A hui hou!
Donna Howard
808-988-1111
2
Count^^let^
From:
Sent:
Mark Hyde <HYDEM001@hawaii.rr.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 5:19 PM
County Clerk
January 7, 2022, County Council Meeting: Bill 148 8i County Communication 22-9
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from hydem001@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
I SUPPORT OVERRIDING Mayor.Victorino's veto of the above.
Mark Hyde
4320 E. Waiola Loop
Kihei, HI 96753
808 874-3839
<=9
oo0-^1
Cji
rn
73
fTi
oI
rnoo 3y*"n
rnm -H O-c=7; n CO
1
RECCiVEDCounty Clerk
Ml JAN -7 AN 7: 57From:
Sent:
Anna Impey Seyana Jewelry <seyanajewelry@gmaiLcom>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 8;53 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
To:
Or-i-lCE OF THE
COUNiY CLERKSubject:
IYou don't often get email from seyanajewelry@gmail.com. Learn whv this is important
Concerning Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
We are in support of reversing the Veto set in place by our mayor.
We support Bill 148 which will set a moratorium on new Transient Accommodations on Maui, and pause further
development of new hotels, timeshares, short-term rental homes, and transient vacation rental units, for two years
or until tourism management measures are implemented.
We have lived in the islands for 32 years and of course change is inevitable, but it has become disturbing how many
tourists do arrive, many respectful but many not.
Just shopping has become a plan your timing event. In these covid times, it already is extra difficult. I went to a store
the other day, very early to beat the rush of folks getting of planes to do their shop, and I was the only person in line
for the checkout. A tourist (it was obvious) comes and stands 2 feet behind me, not respecting the six-foot rule at all.
wearing a mask below the nose.
Traffic has become much worse in the last several years and there is not enough good and affordable housing for
residents.
Please reconsider the reinstatement of Bill 148.
Thank you,
John and Anna Impey
Kula
Visit us online: www.sevanaiewelrv.com
1
CountyCleHc RCClIP'TD
Molly Jacobson <molly@mollyjacobson.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 1:53 PM
County Clerk
RE: Bill 148, County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient-Acgmr^datjc^q^
202? JAN -5 PH h 5
From:
Sent: 9
To:
Subject:
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from molly@mollyjacobson.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
I am writing in support of the moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui that was passed by the
County Council and then vetoed by Mayor Victorino.
This moratorium has the will of the people behind it, and I urge you to forge ahead and stand by your
original vote and OVERRIDE his veto.
We must start regulating tourism more closely, because the unregulated OVER tourism we currently have
is killing the golden goose.
We run the risk of not only damaging our own wellbeing and safety and way of life, but also losing the
very income people like Mayor Victorino hope to protect.
I used to write restaurant reviews for a tourist-oriented book that was the second-best-selling book about
Maui travel (after the ridiculous monster Maui Revealed). As such, I am a member of multiple Facebook
groups aimed at tourists coming to Maui specifically.
Over the years since 2008, when I first joined Facebook, I have seen a MARKED decline in opinion about
Maui as a destination. Folks who used to come every year now skip a few years because "it's so crowded
now."
People who come are less interested in the culture than in the "tourist attractions." They don’t seem to
understand that this isn't a tourist attraction, it's an island, home to many people, and a beautiful place to
VISIT.
They think it's made for them, not open to them.
And that is driving kind, respectful visitors away. The cheaper the vacation, the more people come -- this is
basic supply and demand economics.
The addition of dozens of direct flights is sometimes blamed, but I think we all know that the main driver
of over-tourism is the number of beds available on the island.
Quite simply, when we started letting people rent out their homes and condos to visitors, we opened up
the floodgates. And the more hotels that have sprung up, the worse it gets.
1
I have written in the past about the need to regulate tourism on Medium.com. Just in case you missed
them:
https://mollyiacobson.medium.com/over-tourism-on-maui-behaves-exactlv-like-cancer-in-the-body-
242ca2ed30d4
https://mollyJacobson.medium.com/in-opposition-to-the-environmental-assessment-for-short-term-
vacation-rentals-for-the-super-rich-188bbe710275
https://mollyJacobson.medium.com/troublina-doubling-how-addina-an-insianificant-332-visitors-per-
day-to-mauis-populatlon-will-b1859d8ecdd8
Troubling Doubling: How Adding an "Insignificant
332 Visitors Per Day to Maui's Population Wil...
My Open Letter Testimony to the Maui Planning Commission RE: the Maui
Coast Hotel Expansion Special Management Area Application
mollyjacobson.medium.com
tt:
In opposition to the Environmenta
Assessment for "Short Term Vacation
Rentals for the Super-Rich", AKA the
Wailea Resort SF-S Residential Project
ay Molly Jacobson | Medium
SHORT TERM VACATION
RENTALS FOR THE SUPER-RICH
Kihei, back when it was truly “country." And
Commissioners, please watch this video from 1960. It was
made by a California marketing firm. You will see Just
how undeveloped Maui was back then.
moilyJacobson.medium.com
2
Over-Tourism on Maui Behaves Exactly
Like Cancer in the Body. | by Molly
Jacobson Medium
THREE: Evading apoptosis ... Not Committing Suicide to
Prevent Harm. Cancer cells grow fast and don't stop.
They also refuse to die. Normal cells are born, live a
certain length of time ... and then kill themselves
naturally and quietly at the end of their natural lifespan.
nnollyjacobson.medium.com
The Maui Island Plan suggests there should never be more than 1 visitor for every 2 residents, and for
good reason. This reasonable — more than reasonable — limit allows the environment to recover, the
infrastructure to stay intact, and the quality of life for residents to remain high.
Any place that has a high quality of life for residents is by definition a lovely place to visit. When life
quality lowers, visitor experience lessens as well.
Just like the proverbial frog boiled alive, the pandemic has shown us all just how hot the water is on Maui.
In 2019, most of us were alarmed at the number of visitors we had. The next year with its sudden decrease
was shocking, not only because we remembered Just how lovely this island is, but also because the
promises made to us were not kept.
We were told by leaders that protecting the island from over-tourism was a goal and that once tourism
resumed, we would see measures taking place to do so.
And then in October of 2020, the promises were forgotten. The number of tourists we are now
experiencing is threatening everything we hold dear, including our environment, wildlife, and our own
health and safety.
I don't need to lecture you about how fragile our infrastructure is. I know you know firsthand how bad our
sewage treatment systems are, our water shortages, the reefs dying, and the landfill that will be full within
a year or two.
Meanwhile, the tourists who are flooding our beaches are chasing dolphins and seals and honu with
impunity. Our fisherman have to go farther out to catch and are crowded off the beaches, which means
they have to feed their families from their wallets, not their tackle box.
Mayor Victorino has shown himself to be completely in the pocket of business interests, and his veto
reflects that.
3
He clearly does not value the long-term health and wellbeing of the island over the short-term interests of
tourism business owners. As a business owner, I am all for a healthy economy, but a healthy economy
does NOT consist of just one industry. We urgently need a way to diversify the economy so that "all boats
can rise."
A moratorium on future visit accommodations will at least give a pause to the industry and allow us to
organize efforts to help create better solutions than Just more of the same.
This is a common-sense moratorium, and I urge you to override his veto. I am very disappointed in the
Mayor's efforts to hold back the tide of public opinion/will, and I will support someone else — someone
who puts residents over tourists — in the next election.
I appreciate and respect the Council and the current members. It is very difficult to take on the leadership
roles you have been elected to. There are many competing interests to weigh and consider, and no
solution is ever perfect.
But this solution — not letting the tourism industry expand the number of beds on this island so we can all
catch our breath -- is about as perfect as it gets.
Please, override the Mayor's veto.
Molly Jacobson
Kihei
4
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Dorothy Jakubek <dotjakubek@gmail.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 8:43 AM
County Clerk
Bill 148 County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from dotjakubek@gmaii.com. Learn why this is important
Good Morning Maui County Council Members,
I am writing to show that I support the moratorium on visitor/transient accommodations that was passed by the County
Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino. I request that you override his veto. This moratorium is needed to help in
controlling the over-tourism that is currently a very large issue on the islands. Why is it that the developers and large
hotel companies are dictating what happens on the islands? Why is it that greed is all I see on the islands? Why is it that
we do not continue to try to preserve the beauty of the islands? Why is it that the Real Estate companies are getting
rich off of the islands? And the local people are now being forced out of their homes and can not or will not be able to
afford to live on the islands that are rightfully theirs.
1 know that I have brought up this fact to you all before, but should we really be continuing to bring more and more
people to the islands at one time? It used to be that this was a special place to come to, a place where you could be
thankful to come to. The idea that you would encourage more people to come and then brag about the amount of
tourists that we have on island at any given time is plain and simple, nuts. The traffic is horrible on any given day and
when there is an accident or flooding or fire, everything comes to a complete shut down. Why? Because we really only
have one real road that goes from the West side to the other side of the island. How dangerous and how frustrating for
those that work or live on one side or the other. Not to mention how critical it is when someone is in need to get to the
hospital and be stuck on the West side stuck in traffic around the Pali. We sat for 3 hours one day trying to get back
home from Kahului because a line was down over the road.
The infrastructure of this island should be your main concern before you keep thinking about bringing in more and more
people. The water/waste issue should be your main concern before you allow more buildings to be erected. Not to
mention the amount of people here versus the size of our hospital or the amount of staff that we still have at our
hospital in recent days. What happened to our second hospital plans?
The people of Hawaii should be your main concern before you keep destroying their beautiful islands and jamming all of
this over everything at them. Stop and think and study what is happening here. Do not be so quick to allow more
before we take care of our own issues. Why keep ruining such beauty.
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts.
Mahalo,
C T3
H
Dorothy
Lahaina 3a» moIm-< ■>0 rnoO i I
m mop
a7^ rn .X5
1
Count^jetjc
Kelly Jakubek <kelly.jakubek@gmail.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 8:33 AM
County Clerk
Testimony on Bill 148 County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient
Accommodation
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kelly.jakubek@gmail,com. Learn why this is important
January 6, 2022
Aloha Members of Maui County Council,
I am writing to offer my support for the moratorium on Visitor and Transient Accommodations passed by the County
Council, and unfortunately vetoed by Mayor Victorino. I respectfully ask that you do the right thing and override the
Mayor's veto. With this moratorium, you can help reign in Maui’s worsening over-tourism-which is severely impacting
resident's quality of life, causing damage to the land, and diverting resources and housing away from residents.
Tourism numbers are beginning to exceed pre-pandemic levels. This kind of growth is unsustainable and is wreaking
havoc to our natural resources-ie. abuse and damage of hiking areas, beaches, and parks. I am disappointed in Mayor
Victorino for vetoing this moratorium and failing to protect the well-being and best interests of residents. The Mayor has
not only chosen to align with unregulated businesses that continue to cause severe congestion on our roadways, take
away parking at beaches, and deplete the island's resources, but he continues to rally behind mainland investors who
have already driven up housing costs and forced local residents to leave their homes-many who have relocated to the
mainland.
The Maui Island Plan would help provide much needed homes to residents and improve resident access to our island’s
resources, particularly water that has been diverted away from residents to resorts (to fill their pools and maintain their
landscaping).
I urge the Maui council to take action to do what's best for our land and its residents and override the Mayor's veto.
Respectfully,
Kelly Jakubek
ocO X)c ~n
2;o
m35-
oIm-< rn
OX
mm
XI X
m
CO
aJ=:
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
nn JAN -5 PH 1|: 19From:
Sent:
Sandra Kaestle <sandrakaestle@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 2:53 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
To: OFFICE OF THESubject: COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from sandrakaestie@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please support the voices of your constituents and vote to override the Mayor's veto of Bill 148 and the two year
moratorium on transient accommodations. This is our time as a community to take a closer look at how we want Maui
to flourish and sustain its self before returning to the pre-pandemic days of new construction and expansion. Let's get it
right. Hold to your decision as a County Council and vote to override the veto.
Sincerely
Sandra Kaestle
1
* * »
RECEiVEDPRMA
Ml JAN -6 R-1 4: 19V ♦ ♦ ♦Cho-^
January 6, 2022 OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLEF^K
Dear Maui County Councilmembers,
On behalf of Maui PRMA, the Vacation Rental Trade Council under the Maui Chamber of Commerce,
we would like to ask you to uphold the Mayor's veto of the proposed moratorium on transient
accommodations. Bill 148 establishing chapter 19.98.
PRMA, the Professional Rental Management Association, is a coalition of professional property
management companies representing over 1600 legally zoned condominium vacation rental
units throughout Maui. Our members are licensed in the State of Hawaii, engaged in the
management of legal vacation rental properties, primarily condominiums, and comply with real
estate license law and code of ethics. Our companies represent 216 years in business, employing
nearly 200 employees and over 300 independent contractors and vendors.
The visitor industry supports so many other small businesses, contributing to our island's overall
economic health. When this industry is stifled and suffers, jobs are lost and that creates broad waves
of negative impacts that ripple throughout our community. When our industry was shut down during
COVID, West Maui in particular saw unemployment rates in the 50%+ range with food lines that were
2-3 hours long. Changes to our industry affect our local community, especially in the areas
where many of the tourism related employees live and reside (West/South Maui).
We agree with the Mayor in that ultimately, this moratorium will not stop visitors from traveling to
Maui. We believe it will have other negative impacts such as an increase in illegal units at a time when
we are trying to support legal vacation rentals and shut down illegal operations. We would support
continued efforts in allowing permitted transient accommodations to apply and operate in order to
continue to collect GET & TAT revenue and reduce the number of illegal operators. If there is no
means for homeowners interested in pursuing legal permits, we run the risk of creating more
illegal operators. At the end of the two years, this moratorium may create a bigger problem
than when it started.
On behalf of PRMA, we ask that you would NOT overturn the Mayor's veto. Thank you for your
consideration and we welcome any discussion with you or a member of your administration and we
can be contacted at Mauiprma@gmail.com.
Mahalo,
John Kevan
Angela Leone
Co-Founders of Maui Professional Rental Management Association fMaui PRMA1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Jo <jkmakawao@gmail.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 4:06 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for Bill 148/County Comm. 22-9
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email fromjkmakawao@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Please overturn the Mayor's veto on this bill. We need to pause and reevaluate our tourism industry before it's too
late. It's not that we have a shortage and why wouldn't we take some time to reflect and re-evaluate so that the
industry came become quality and sustainable while protecting - at least a little- the Maui Community. This is such a
critical issue and I believe the mayor is wrong to have vetoed it.
Jo Kimm\
Makawao
O'l
c
H
n
morn f
-< rnoo ~o
<3:
m rn42xzcX m Oo
1
Count^£Jerk
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:03 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To:
Subject:
OO
O -n 73
mSent from my iPad Zo OI-●Im rnCN-cBegin forwarded message: OO- -on
mFrom: Sheldon Kohatsu <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 3:02:18 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Reply-To: sheldonkohatsu@gmaiI.com
m w OX X o7^ m un
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Sheldon Kohatsu
sheldonkohatsu@gmail.com
480 Kenolio Road 16-106
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
Count^letjc
From: Joseph Kohn MD <outlook_945BCBF227049F41 @outlook.com> on behalf of Joseph
Kohn MD <Joseph(5)WeAreOne.cc>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 9:12 AM
County Clerk
Testimony RE: Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from joseph@weareone.cc. Learn why this is important
Aloha Councilmembers,
1 strongly SUPPORT THE VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS MORATORIUM AND OVERRIDE THE MAYOR'S
VETO! People before profit.
Thank you for your very kind attention, 20O-n
C~n
cs>
;x}
m33-
2;o o●H Im mOv
Joseph Kohn MD
Founder, We Are One, Inc. - www.WeAreOne.ee - WAO
493 Pio Dr Apt 209
Wailuku, HI 96793-2641
808-359-6605
Joseph@WeAreOne.ee
www.WeAreOne.ee
OO 29-nr~
mm —I
TJX
7^ m
●o
O
\jj
This is an updated message.
1
RECEIVEDCounty Clerk
mi JAN -5 AH 7= N8Marty Martins <mauimanokane@yahoo.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 11:03 PM
County Clerk
The Moratorium on New Transient Accommodations
From:
Sent:
To: OFFICE OF THb
OUNTY CLERKSubject:
IYou don’t often get email from mauimanokane@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha e Members of the County Council,
1 am still in favor of the moratorium on new transit accommodations and urge you to override the
Mayor's veto.
There are plenty of hotels of various sizes, prices, and amenities on Maui.* Seldom are any of them
"sold out."
Figures from the Hawaii Tourism Authority show that even in pre-pandemic 2019, Maui's average
occupancy was in the low 80% range. The November 2021 average was up to 79%.
Thus, there are plenty of rooms to rent and there is no indication the island need more hotels.
Finally, this is a moratorium, not a law carved in granite. Should the day come when more hotel
rooms are needed on Maui (doubtful), the Council can suspend the moratorium for short periods of
time, as needed.
Please override the Mayor's veto.
Respectfully,
Marty Martins
KThei
*TripAdvisor says there 312 properties here.
1
RECEiVED
zon M -6 AH 908
Maui County Council
January 7, 2022
TO; Alice Lee, Chair
Members of the Council OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKFROM: Painting Industry of Hawaii Labor Management Cooperation Trust Fund
Hawaii Tapers Market Recovery Trust Fund
Hawaii Glaziers, Architectural Metal Glassworkers Local Union 1889 AFL-CIO Stabilization Trust Fund
Carpet, Linoleum and Soft Tile Local Union 1926 Market Recovery Trust Fund
RE: Bill 148 (2021) MORATORIUM ON NEWVISITORACCOMMODATIONS
Meeting Date: January 7, 2022
Dear Chair Lee and Council Members;
Thank you for this opportunity to submit testimony on behalf of the Painting Industry of Hawaii Labor
Management Cooperation Trust Fund; Hawaii Tapers Market Recovery Trust Fund; Hawaii Glaziers,
Architectural Metal Glassworkers Local Union 1889 AFL-CIO Stabilization Trust Fund; and the Carpet, Linoleum
and Soft Tile Local Union 1926 Market Recovery Trust Fund in strong opposition to Bill 148 (2021). The
foregoing organizations are labor management cooperation funds between the Painters Union, Tapers Union,
Glaziers Union, and Carpet and Soft Tile Layers Union and their signatory contractors. I am a compensated
lobbyist.
In its current form. Bill 148 (2021) completely ignores the recommendations of the Maui Planning Commission
and places the future livelihoods of our members who live and work on Maui (approximately 200 members
across the four trades) in jeopardy at the worst possible time. Imagine how you might be affected if you were not
able to draw a paycheck for over two years. This measure, which claims that is intended to improve the lives of
Maui residents could actually force local residents to leave the island or state for lack of jobs in the future and will
likely adversely affect the economy in the form of lower tax revenue from construction and tourism.
Moreover, this measure will very likely result in negative consequences for the community. As Mayor Victorino
noted in vetoing the bill, tourists were not deterred from travel to Maui by the lack of rental vehicles or
accommodations. What will likely happen if this measure passes is an increase in the use of legal and illegal
vacation rentals, which will only drive up the cost of housing for local residents even further.
Overriding Mayor Victorino's veto and passing this measure would be a serious mistake, and we respectfully ask
that you do not vote to override the veto. Thank you for this opportunity to testify.
Very truly yours,
Jeffrey Masatsugu
RECEIVED
im JAN -5 PH 4:19
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
January 5, 2022
Aloha [COUNCILMEMBERL
We, a coalition of tourism, business, and labor organizations, are appealing to you to request
your consideration in voting to sustain Maui Mayor Michael Victorino's veto of Bill 148, \A/hich would
create a moratorium on the issuance of building permits for all new lodging accommodations
throughout Maui. We are aware and concerned about the intent of the measure that was passed by the
Maul County Council. We believe strongly that Bill 148, as it is currently written, will not have the
intended effects sought by the Council and will inadvertently hurt not only Maui's overall tourism
industry but also have adverse consequences for countless other businesses that rely on tourism to
employ thousands of Maui residents.
For instance. Bill 148 does not adequately address the proliferation of illegal, short-term
vacation rental units—an issue that begs for more attention and prioritization. As we are all well aware,
the most explosive growth in visitor accommodations in recent years has not been in the traditional,
brick-and-mortar lodging operations, which have been nominal, but in short-term vacation rental
units—both legal and illegal. Unscrupulous operation of illegal units has led to the unchecked growth of
short-term rental inventory in both resort and residential zoned areas. Ease of booking, relative price,
and availability have drawn budget travelers to these units. This will continue and likely worsen if the
development of traditional lodging properties is limited. Curtailing development and restricting growth
will only drive more visitors to these accommodations and will further exacerbate the need for more
affordable housing for local residents.
It also remains our position that a moratorium on building permits will have the unintended
effect of depressing the market for other sectors of the economy, including the construction industry
and other various skilled trades—many of which rely upon the tourism industry for their economic well
being. The issuance of building permits ultimately means more projects, more jobs, and more
opportunities for Maui residents; limiting this for our economy on the heels of a worldwide pandemic is
self-destructive and will have lasting economic consequences for Maui County. Meaningful and
substantive investment into Maui's economy could be jeopardized or lost.
It is a substantive fact that tourism remains Maui's strongest economic driver. It consistently
provides jobs not only in the lodging industry but also in ground and air transport, activities and
1 I MHLA
attractions, retail and dining, the service industry, and the agricultural sector, which provides local goods
and produce for eateries enjoyed by visitors and residents alike. Putting a two-year hold on building
permits will effectively hamstring the industry as it works to attract the ideal traveler and provide a
quality experience on the Valley Isle, hurting our overall tourism product and creating new challenges
and roadblocks that will need to be addressed in the future.
Finally, we would be remiss not to cite the last-minute changes that were made to Bill 148 just
prior to its passage. This did not allow for proper vetting and for a robust public discussion to take place.
A measure with such staggering impacts on the local populace and economy deserves more openness
and transparency, and this measure was not given the appropriate time to be considered by the public
in any meaningful way.
In closing, we would like to reiterate that we understand that the people of Maui are seeking
well-thought-out solutions to strike a balance between the needs and desires of local residents and
visitors. We remain steadfast in our belief that Bill 148 is not the answer. We, therefore, stand ready to
work with the Maui County Council to identify alternate strategies to address better tourism
management, so at this time, we ask that you consider the ramifications of this measure and vote to
sustain Mayor Victorino's veto.
Mahalo, for your consideration,
(Signatures on following pages)
2 [ MHLA
SIS
Angela Vento
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Maui Hotel & Lodging Association
Maui Hotel & LodgingASSOCIATION
Mufi Hannemann
President & CEO
Hawai'i Lodging & Tourism Association
HAWAI I LODGING & TOURISM
ASSOC IAT ION
Airlines for America'
'/ve Connect the vVcf:.Sean Williams
Vice President, State and Local Government Affairs
Airlines for America
Cl
Mitchell A. Imanaka
Chair
American Resort Development Association
ffTlV
Ronald I. Taketa
Executive Secretary-Treasurer
Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenter
lhH\iil[}.uii\\i,|'(ii\(iuir I’liimms
GCA of Hawaii$/ Lrf M R-M. cosnL\nmts Asyx of haw mi
Tropic. Qojilitt TrolccivCheryl Walthall
Executive Vice President
General Contractors Association of Hawaii
3 I MHLA
HAWAII BUILDING &
CQNSTRUCTIDN
\^MfpEM
TRACIS
COUNCa
Gino Soquena
Executive Director
Hawaii Builders & Construction Trade Council
Jerry Gibson
President
Hawaii Hotel Alliance
HAWAI'I HOTEL●● ‘ L
M AUICHAMBER.OF COMMERCE
Pamela Tumpap
President
Maui Chamber of Commerce
OPERATING
ENGINEERSWilliam Greig
Business Agent
Operating Engineers Local Union #3
Christopher Delaunay
Government Relations Manager
Pacific Resource Partnership
Aaron Placourakis
President & CEO
Tri-Star Restaurant Group
I
4 1 MHLA
RECEIVEDCount^CetJ<
mi JAN -7 AH 8: 02Liz McGain <lizinmaui@yahoo.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 7:57 AM
County Clerk
Bill 148 please veto
From:
Sent:
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERKSubject:
You don't often get email from lizinmaui@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Members,
I have testified multiple times on this Issue, and today, \A/hat is important is that we the people are
represented by our council members in this vote to overturn Mayor Victorino's veto. A veto which
ignored the majority council vote and the will of the majority of residents of Maui. We have a
democracy here still in Hawaii, when one person in this case the Mayor wields his power to overturn a
majority vote, we have a problem with how our democracy is functioning . Overturning his veto is a
harder accomplishment, and no longer reflects the greater island population, but leaves the power to
the two dissenting council members which the Mayor is well aware of. . How sad.
I myself live in Kula , and request my representative reflect my views and those of my peers who live
in kula and want the veto overturned as well. We would like the Mayors veto overturned. Yuki Lee ,
you represent us, please join your majority fellow council members and your districts majority view,
and vote for the will of our island community. There are many lobbyists weighing in and special
interest groups, who do not represent our community well. I appreciate the council, and all of the
member dedication and hard work. I simply request today you put aside your own views and opinions
and represent the majority , reflected by the councils vote prior to the Mayors veto. We the majority
want this moratorium in place. Lets keep democracy strong.
Mahalo.
Liz McGain
1
Count^CleH<
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 2:55 PM
County Clerk
Fwd; Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
ocO Tl
C "n
H
73To: mSubject: oIm rnO'-<
Oo n
mm H
TjT- w
aSent from my iPad o
Begin forwarded message:
From: Thai Nguyen <info@emai!.actionnetwork.org>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 2:52:48 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Reply-To: shortballer21@gmail.com
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Thai Nguyen
shortballer21 @gmail.com
118 Waiapo PI
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
rw
70
imeshare moI
o m
:x
January 6, 2022 m -~i
X' X m
D✓*\ n I
TO: Councilmember Alice Lee, Chair
Councilmember Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Vice- Chair
Members of the Maui County Council
CD
FR: AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - HAWAII (ARDA-Hawaii)
RE: Support of to CC 22-9 (Mayor notifying of Veto of Bill 148 entitled "A Bill for an
Ordinance Establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County Code, Declaring A Moratorium on
New Transient Accommodations on Maui")
Hearing date: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00AM
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez and members of the Maui County Council,
Thank you for allowing ARDA-Hawaii to submit testimony in STRONG SUPPORT of CC 22-9
regarding a veto of Bill 148 establishing Chapter 19.98, Maui County Code, declaring a
moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui. Bill 148 seeks to create an island wide
moratorium which temporarily prohibits the issuance of any permit under Title 19. The proposed
measure creates multiple concerns that could have broad impacts on Maui’s economy.
The stated purpose of the proposed bill is to establish a moratorium to comply with visitor to
resident ratio specified in Chapter 2.SOB of the Maui Island Plan by pausing the increase of
transient accommodations. However, there is no data to suggest that stopping the development of
transient accommodations will decrease the number of visitors to Maui. It is simple, it won’t.
Visitors will still come to Maui and seek other accommodations even if the supply of lodging units
is limited. ARDA Hawaii agrees with the Mayor that as a result of the moratorium the volume of
visitors will permeate into the residential neighborhoods and long-term apartment inventory on
Maui through an increase in short-term vacation rentals ("STR"), which represent the fastest-
growing segment within Maui's visitor accommodations industry. If the purpose of the bill is to
ultimately decrease the visitor count, perhaps further regulation is needed on the number of illegal
short-term vacation rental units. There are better alternatives to accomplish the Council's goals of
reducing the impacts of the tourism industry on Maui residents, without the negative economic
impacts created by the proposed moratorium. Regulating the fastest growing segment of transient
accommodations in Maui by enforcing existing rules against illegal STRs, would provide the
greatest reduction in visitors to comply with the Maui Island Plan.
1
Conversely, the moratorium would seek to limit transient accommodations island wide, thus,
prohibiting increased accommodations even in districts that are intended for tourism. Hotel and
resort areas are where visitor accommodations should be focused and that aids aid in insulating
Maui residents from the perceived negative impacts of tourism.
In addition, ARDA Hawaii agrees with the Mayor's concerns with the insufficient opportunity for
the public to weigh in on the amendments made at second reading. At the previous council hearing,
several amendments were made to Bill 148 without first being posted with the agenda. The public
was deprived of the opportunity to weigh in on the amendments due to insufficient notice. This is
significant as one of the amendments altered the proposed affordable housing exception ratio for
the moratorium which was an express recommendation made by the Planning Commission.
Further, there are several legal concerns as the proposed moratorium may be unconstitutional as
it: I) fails to substantially advance a legitimate government interest as required by the due process
clause; 2) is unconstitutionally vague; 3) and violates the equal protection clause in treating
similarly situated property owners differently.
Bill 148 also unfairly impacts existing projects currently undergoing permit application review.
Section 2 as currently drafted makes the moratorium applicable to permits currently being
reviewed that have not received their final discretionary approval. This amendment to Section 2 is
patently unfair to applicants who have already expended significant resources and time to obtain
a permit that is being reviewed. Further, Section  2would directly contradict the Planning
Commission recommendation that the moratorium does not affect current permit applications.
Moreover, the moratorium will have substantial economic impacts on Maui’s economy. It is
concerning that the County would seek to deter capital investment in a time where it is still
recovering from the pandemic. This is especially problematic given the recent surge in cases that
may continue to impact the tourism industry. The County would risk forgoing substantial amounts
of investments, tax revenues and Job creation for Maui’s economy. For example, the timcshare
industry is currently a major contributor to Maui’s economy by providing more than $73 million
per year in state and local taxes, providing occupancies which keep Maui residents employed and
supplying well compensated jobs to Maui residents.
Further, as the association representing the vacation ownership and resort development industries
in Hawaii, ARDA-Hawaii is surprised that the County would want to stop timeshare visitors from
coming to Maui. The timeshare visitor has the exact profile of the type of visitor that we should
welcome with higher income levels, and more spending off property in restaurants and local stores,
and who are more likely to take care of their property and Maui County. Maui is a “home away
from home" as timeshare visitors are owners, not transients. We should be mindful that the
timeshare industry could be part of the solution.
The proposed ordinance would enact a moratorium until the Council enacts legislation
implementing recommendations by the Tourism Management Temporary Investigative Group
("TIG") which establishes limits on accommodation types and area. This poses significant risk to
Maui’s economy, without first obtaining information to better manage the industry. Instead, the
2
TIG, in collaboration with the tourism industry, could address the Council’s concerns prior to any
moratorium being implemented to prevent causing unnecessary harm to Maui’s fragile economy,
which is still recovering from the pandemic.
Additionally, the proposed ordinance is intended to mitigate negative impacts on the environment
and residents’ quality of life. As has been stated many times, there is a lack of data suggesting that
a moratorium will substantially reduce the negative impacts on the environment or residents. It is
concerning that such a broad and inflexible policy would be implemented without first showing
transient accommodations as the primary cause of these negative impacts. As mentioned
previously, further regulation of illegal STRs would reduce the negative impacts on resident's
quality of life without implementing such an inflexible policy that would result in lost jobs and
reduced economic activity for residents.
As emphasized by the Mayor, due consideration should be given to the broader impacts of the
proposed measure. We as a community should consider a resolution that provides Maui residents
with the ability to continue to work and provide for their families, while at the same time
addressing the impacts of the influx of visitors, until Maui can transition to a more diversified
economic base.
I respectfully ask that the Council uphold the Mayor’s veto of Bill 148 and instead pursue the
further regulation of illegal STRs prior to implementing any form of moratorium to address the
Council's concerns in a more meaningful way.
Thank you for your consideration of my comments.
Respectfully submitted,
Ryan Nobriga
Maui Task Force Chair
ARDA Hawaii
3
Count^CleH<
Dawn Niederhauser <dawnniederhauser@gmai!.com>
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:12 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148, County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from dawnniederhauser@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
i am writing this letter in support of the moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui that was passed by the County
Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino.
I am in support of all Maui residents who request that you please override his veto.
1 am an administrator for the Facebook group ETA Hawaii - Enough Tourists Already. We are 2700 members and growing
by the day. While I do not live on Maui. I would say that the MAJORITY of our members do, as it seems that residents of
Maui are the most affected by the impact of unchecked unregulated tourism.
As elected officials it is your sworn duty to put the needs of your constituents - the people of Maui - first. Please listen to
them and not to the monied interests.
Mahalo,
Dawn Niederhauser
Mountain View, HI OG 7)O
om \ ●. \o--<
O <O
mm -5X anO
1
Count^£lerk RFCFIVFn
Raphiell Nolin <raphiell@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 9:52 PM
County Clerk
Moratorium on new tourist accommodations
From:
Sent: JAN -6 AH & 16
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from raphieli@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha,
I am a long time Maui resident and have seen the quality of life decline for the locals over the past decade. Tourism is
out of control, the numbers far outweighing the infrastructures we have in place. Our roads, beaches and water supply
have reached their maximum capacities. Rentals are scarce and overpriced for our Hawaiian people to even afford to
live here. We need more housing for the people, not more transient accommodation, vacation condos and hotels.
Please vote to override the Mayor's veto and implement this moratorium to improve the quality of life of Maui's
residents and a reasonable and sustainable number of visitors.
Mahalo,
Raphiell Nolin
Pukalani
1
Count^CleHc R’iaCi:i\''LD
Ml JAN -6 AH 8: 17
OFFICE OF THE
COUNiY CLERK
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 7:50 AM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:
From: John Okamura <jokamura@kiheigardens.net>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 6:33:57 AM HST
To: "Keani N. Rawlins" <Keani.Rawlins@mauicounty.us>, "Tasha A. Kama"
<Tasha.Kama@mauicounty.us>, Gabe Johnson <Gabe.Johnson@mauicounty.us>, Kelly King
<Kelly.King@mauicounty.us>, "Mike J. Molina" <Mike.Molina@mauicounty.us>, "Tamara A. Paltin
<Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>, "Shane M. Sinenci" <Shane.Sinenci@mauicounty.us>, Yukilei
Sugimura <Yukilei.Sugimura@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
ISome people who received this message don't often get email fromjokamura@kiheigardens.net. Learn why this is important
Aloha Chair Lee, Vice Chair Rawlins-Fernandez, and members of the Council,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds Maui
schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more,
if we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to our island.
Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you.
John Okamura
Managing Partner
Kihei Gardens & Landscaping Co., LLP
P.O. Box 1058
Puunene, Hi 96784
(808)244-3804; (808)242-0802 FAX
jokamura(g)kiheigardens.net
1
County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros <mavisoiiveira@gmail.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 1:44 PM
County Clerk
Testimony
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from mavisoliveira@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Council Chair Lee & Councilmembers:
My name is Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros and I'm employed at the Hana District Council Office, Shane Sinenci, East Maui CM,
but this is my own personal testimony:
Bill 148 (2021), CC 22-9:
In support of Councilmembers overriding the veto re Moratorium. I'm not sure if we need to be reminded of all the cars
illegally parked on the Hana Road, Waianapanapa S.P. turning to rezervations system, our small emergency service being
overtaxed (work kine) at least 4 times that we know of, they were helping careless parashooters. Hikers to Kaihalulu,
Waioaka.
Reso 22-3: Please extend the permit for the Hana Affordable Housing project.
Reso 22-4: With what's happening all over the Nation and big corporations taking over, buying water rights/permits
from Nestles, Pepsi, CA Almond Farmers monopolizing on the water there, including A&B & EMI, I think in the best
interest of the people, we could all rest easier if the Water stays with or is bought by the County of Maui.
Reso 22-5: The military is supposed to be here to protect us, at least that's what most people think right.? please ask
them to do their job. Our Grandson's school and many others we know & don't know, are on this water system.
Bill 153 (2021): please amend appendix A.
Mahalo nui.
Mavis Oliveira-Medeiros
Earle Medeiros, Sr.
Earle Medeiros, Jr.
(808)866-7409
(808)248-8606
1
County Clerk
MI JAN -5 PN 19
"VtD
Sara Patton <sarapattonmaui@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 3:56 PM
County Clerk
Please override the mayor's veto on bill 148
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
f-HCe OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from sarapattonmaui@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9
Aloha Maui County Council. Thank you for passing Bill 148 to establish a
moratorium on new transient accommodations on Maui, and pause further
development of new hotels, timeshares, short-term rental homes, and
transient vacation rental units, for two years or until tourism management
measures are implemented. This is a critical time and an
extremely important issue. We need to address overtourism issues before
It's too late.
Mahalo for doing the right thing.
Sara Patton
160 River Road
Wailuku, HI 96793
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPad
1
Count^£letJ<
Paula Phillips <paulalee@hawaii.rr.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 3:42 PM
County Clerk
PLEASE SUPPORT THE VISITOR ACCOMMODATIONS MORATORIUM AND OVERRIDE
THE MAYOR'S VETO!
From;
Sent:
To;
Subject;
You don't often get email from paulalee@hawaii.rr.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council,
Mahalo for your past support of the Visitor accommodation moratorium. Please support it again and override the
mayor's veto.
This must include all hotels, Airbnb, TVRs... and we must crack down on all of the illegal rentals out there taking housing
away from our local families.
1 hope you all will support this bill or continue to support this bill for the future generations of keiki on the island.
Mahalo for all you do.
Paula Phillips
Haiku
oc: 730 cVirus-free, www.avast.com
rnCT
P'l I
-C:-<
c -oOn.
m
rr'i
r~ rn4r oo
o
1
Count^Cerk ffilCLlVCD
From:
Sent:
Terry Restivo <terryrestivo@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 9:39 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148
Z02? JAN -6 AH & 16To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
IYou don't often get email from terryrestivo@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
lanuary 5, 2022
RE: Bill 148, County Communication 22-9
Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
Email: county.cIerk@mauicounty.us
Dear Maui County Council Members:
As a new physician recruit on Maui (who was recruited to improve the medical care here), 1 am writing this
letter in support of the moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui, that was passed by the County
Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino. PLEASE override his veto! This moratorium is a crucial step toward
remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are seeing.
The Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of residents in
order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, and quality of life for residents-all of which would
improve the visitor experience as well.
The year 2019 was already a year of uncontrolled growth, fueled by the tourism industry. Promises were
made by leaders during the early part of the pandemic to improve on the tourism experience for both visitors
and residents. Residents were promised that the goal would be to decrease the number of tourists while
protecting the islands. Since October of 2020, those promises have been completely forgotten by our leaders,
who proudly announce that the goal of reaching 2019 numbers has been met and now exceeded.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic and now, in 2021, during the pandemic, is a
threat to the health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
Our island resources are very limited. Our inadequate sewage treatment, water, and landfills are not meant
for this excessive level of use. We just finished months of a severe water shortage, yet only the Upcountry
residents were affected, and not tourists. The hotels are literally sucking up water as if there is no restriction.
While sewage is discharged into our oceans, tourists are overcrowding our beaches and abusing our wildlife
and injuring the reefs.
On Maui, tourists drive all over the island, causing huge traffic congestion—and this is despite the rental car
shortage. Tourists don’t even think twice about using up resources meant for residents, such as UHauls.
The mayor has not shown any desire to control tourism (i.e. vetoing the last proposed moratorium for south
and west Maui and vetoing the affordable housing bill) Mayor Victorino goes out of his way to please the big
money brought in by the tourism industry and mainland investors, He has made it clear that residents are
second class citizens to the first class tourists. It is the responsibility of government officials to ensure that
there is adequate affordable housing for those who are essential to making our community work [health care
professionals, teachers, police, social workers, restaurant workers, grocery/retail workers and yes, workers in
tourism), not to incentivize nonresidents' profiting off tourism.
1
Residents sacrifice a great deal financially to live here and deserve to enjoy the beaches, hikes and parks.
Instead, there is no room for residents on any of these. The majority of residents here do not depend at all on
the tourist industry—yet all of us are made to sacrifice for it. Hardworking residents are trying not to be
chased out by greedy leaders who put short-term profit first.
Our economy needs to be diversified. Our children need to be taught skills that will help them to succeed in
society, rather than just to serve tourists. We need a moratorium on future visitor accommodations while
solutions can be implemented, including leadership that supports resident lives over the tourism industry.
Residents are SO tired of having to write letters again and again and testify again and again for something
that seems so common sense. I am so disappointed in the Mayor, who despite being a Maui native, obviously
supports the tourism industry over our quality of life.
Personally, I can say that unless this passes, I will not continue to live and serve the community here on Maui.
I'm tired of having to hide in my home to avoid the masses of Covid infected visitors while the visitors trample
through the island without wearing their masks. I’m heart sick that this beautiful culture is being sold out to
money. I truly hope someone with integrity steps forward to make these necessary changes.
Sincerely,
Terry E.Restivo, DO
Restivo Plastic Surgery-Maui
85 Maui Lani Parkway
Wailuku, HI 96793
Office:(888)533-2133
Fax:(855)827-2321
2
WHICH TAKE AWAY THE QUALITY OF LIFE AND THE ENVIRONMENT WHICH IS THE
REASON TOURIST STARTED COMING IN THE FIRST PLACE.
I WORK IN THE TOURIST INDUSTRY AND I PERSONALLY HEAR THIS FROM
TOURISTS.
I urge you to NOT stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148. WE
ARE ALL AWARE OF THE MAYOR'S LONG STANDING PRO DEVELOPMENT STAND
SINCE BEFORE HE WAS UNFORTUNATELY ELECTED MAYOR.
ARE THERE ANY POLITICIANS WHO WILL ACTUALLY STAND UP TO THE RAMPANT
EXPLOITATION OF THIS LAND AND RESOURCES....AND ACTUALLY WORK FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO PAY FOR THEM TO WORK FOR THE PEOPLE AND NOT FOR THE BIG
MONEY PAYOFFS FROM GREEDY COMPANIES.
SHAME ON YOU ALL WHO DO THIS FOR YOUR OWN GAIN.
WE ARE REALLY LOSING HOPE OF ANY POLITICIAN HAVING INTEGRITY AND THE
GOOD OF THE LAND AT HEART.
Mahalo if you are Pono
kathryn reynolds
konakatr@hotmail.com
594 Hapapa Rd
Kula, Hawaii 96790
2
Count^£lei^ RECEI'^/gP
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:44 PM
County Cierk
Fwd; DO NOT SUSTAIN THE VETO of Bill 148
From:
Sent: 2022 JAM -7 AH T- 56To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Get Outlook for iOS
From: kathryn reynolds <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 5:01:29 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: DO NOT SUSTAIN THE VETO of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin.
"Tourism is an important part of our local economy." It is also not sustainable for our island to
continually build more. There needs to be a limit on tourism and if there is not a place open
for them to stay at a certain time, they will book later.
"The revenue generated from visitors funds Maui schools, environmental agencies, public
safety, and more".
THIS IS TRUE BUT MORE GREED FOR MORE REVENUE FROM TOURISTS IS NOT THE
ANSWER TO A SUSTAINABLE MAUI ENVIRONMENT THAT BENEFITS THE PEOPLE
AND LAND OF MAUI.
DECISIONS BASED ON GREED - PACIFIC RESOURCE PARTNERSHIP :(- -ARE NOT
PONOFOR MAUI!
STOP PROMOTING OVERDEVELOPMENT AND LOOK AT MAUI PEOPLE WHO LIVE
HERE FOR IDEAS ON A SUSTAINABLE ISLAND THAT IS NOT BASED SOLELY ON
TOURIST INCOME...
"If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won’t stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods"
THIS IS BS SCARE TACTICS. MANY TOURISTS COMPLAIN ALREADY ABOUT TOO
MANY TOURISTS ON THIS ISLAND AND TOO MUCH DEVELOPMENT.
LOOK AT OTHER COUNTRIES AND THE OVERCROWDED TOURIST PROBLEMS
1
RECEIVEDCount^£Ierk
im JAN -7 AH 7: 56From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:45 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To:
FICE OF THE
● BOUNTY CLERK
f—
■jr
Subject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Anthony Riecke-Gonzales <anthony@rskarchitects.com>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 2:29:59 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
I You don't often get email from anthony@rskarchitects.com. Learn whv this is important
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Putting a moratorium of visitor accommodations will notwork.to limit visitors. Economics 101
if Maui has too many visitors, then raise the price to be a visitor. Other methods such as a
visitor tax paid by non-residents arriving should be looked into. That way it would catch both
those staying in legal accommodations, and other places. That would limit the people who
want to come to Maui, as well as providing revenue to use to making Maui the best place it
can be.
urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Anthony Riecke-Gonzales
anthony@rskarchitects.com
77 Apalapani Lane
Haiku, Hawaii 96708
1
Count^OeH<
From:
Sent:
Irene Ryding <irene@mauiharper.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 8:50 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 Visitors Accommodations Moratorium.
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from irene@mauiharper.com. Learn why this is important
Please know that 1 am in favor of a moratorium on new visitors accommodations. I am shocked (but not surprised) that
our mayor vetoed this bill in light of how disastrous over tourism has been for our home. When upcountry residents
can't water their gardens but hotels drain our supplies dry...something has got to change. Traffic is always a mess now.
I will be watching very closely to see who votes for and against this bill and vote accordingly. Enough is enough! It is time
to put residents first, not big business with the promise of low paying jobs that cannot even support our families.
Sincerely,
O-'i
Zq
i
Irene Ryding
444 Hoolawa Rd.
Haiku, HI 96708
73moI
 m m-<
OIrene Ryding, CHIP
Certified Harp Therapy Practitioner
irene@mauiharper.com
www.mauiharper.com
(808)573-2188
cell: (808) 280-0062
<l. i n
mo4=i 11 CO
0
1
RECEIVED
mi nM.-J-ja 7i.^County Clerk
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:45 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
THEOFFICE OF
COUNTY CLECKTo:
Subject:
Get Outlook for iOS
From: ryan sakuda <info@emai!.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 2:59:20 PM
To: Tamara A. Paitin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
ryan sakuda
ryansakuda@gmail.com
1216 lilo pi
honolulu, Hawaii 96822
1
RfcCElVEDCount^^lerk
Ml JAN -7 Aff7: 56From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:45 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148 of tiic
■-●'-'NTY CLERK
To:
Subject:
Get Outlook for IPS
From: Daniel Sandomire <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 2:17:28 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Daniel Sandomire
dsando@yahoo.com
1880 Laukahi St
Honolulu, Hawaii 96821-1361
1
LOCAL M HI. lUBAC
International Union of Bricklayers and
Allied Craftworkers Local #1 of Hawaii
2251 North School Street, Honolulu, HI 96819
Phone: (808) 841-8822 ● Fax: (808) 777-3456
So0-T1
C*n
H
January 7, 2022 :xj
mThe Honorable Alice L. Lee, Chair
and members
Maui County Council
200 South High Street, Eighth Floor
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
om I
-< o. moo TT “P
3f— : <m;o a: niINO
oo
Re: Strong Opposition to Bill 148, Moratorium on New Transient Accommodations on Maui,
and Request to Sustain Veto
Dear Chair Lee and Councilmembers,
The International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Crafts, Local 1, writes to continue its
opposition of Bill 148, which proposes a moratorium on new transient accommodations on
Maui, and humbly requests that the Council not override the Mayor’s veto.
Our members would be dramatically and detrimentally affected by the proposed moratorium. Due to
the discerning nature of Maui’s visitors, hotel construction and renovations typically involve a
substantial amount of high-quality, high-finish stone, marble, terrazzo, and tile work - the type of
work that our well-equipped contractors and well-trained members perform. Hotel construction and
renovation work provides our members with living wage jobs so they can support their families on
Maui County.
If the proposed moratorium were to go into effect, our members and contractors would find it nearly
impossible to find stable and economically-sustaining work opportunities in Maui County. While the
moratorium purports to only be in effect for a few years, if our Maui members are forced to move
way from the island, it will be much more difficult for them to return home afterwards even if hotel
construction were to be permitted again. If local contractors close up shop and are unable to open
back up after the moratorium expires, the void will be filled by mainland contractors which would
further harm the local economy.
With the tourism industry in a tenuous position due to the COVID-19 pandemic and with an
uncertain future ahead for the local construction industry due to the state of the global economy, we
remain extremely concerned by this proposal.
Sincerely,
/s/ Jt.
Melvin P. Silva, Jr.
Business Manager/Financial Secretary-Treasurer
LOCAL nHUiaAC
Some of our members hard at work at the “Maui Bay Villas” project in Kihei late last year. If the
moratorium were to pass, this type of work would not be available to them for years.
,:r
Benjamin Austria, Mario Bstrada, and Michael Cockett Michael Cockett demonstrates his attention to detail
Joey Magsayo and Preston Latu Mario Estrada carefully lays out stone decking near the pool
Elmer Bonilla shares a jobsite shaka Roy Lokosuka and Aisea Lao with BMK, hard at work
County Clerk RFP.FIVFD
From:
Sent;
Kayla HK <kaylamaui.hi@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 10:19 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148 County Communication 22-9
im JAN -6 AH & 16
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from kayiamaui.hi@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha Maui County Council,
1 am a kanaka maoli who is born, raised and residing in Hawaii. I'm writing in SUPPORT of Bill 148 to establish a
moratorium to stop all new transient accommodations from being developed. Overtourism is making a negative impact
on our natural resources and quality of life. We are in a pandemic and overtourism is still an issue. Please consider this
letter and vote against Mayor Mike Victorino's veto.
Bill 148 Communication 22-9
Me ka 'oia'i'o,
Kayla Shaw
The contents of this email and attachments are intended only for the addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or
privileged information and may be legally protected from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient of this email
or their agent, or if this message has been addressed to you in error, please immediately alert the sender by replying,
then delete this email and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any use,
dissemination, copying, or storage of this email or attachments is strictly prohibited.
1
Dear Council Members,
Ag Working Group supports CM Shane Sinenci’s resolution to buy the East Maui Irrigation
Aqueduct System and sign the lease for the benefit of Maui’s people.
Ag Working Group has been meeting and discussing the continual lack of reliable water
resources for Maui’s farmers and ranchers for over ten years. We have had numerous
meetings with Department of Water Supply directors and staff over those 10 years. In one
meeting with then Water Department director Dave Taylor, he told us it would cost over $350
million to build a reservoir large enough to serve the needs of upcountry. If this is true then
you must see the purchase of the EMI system and associated lease as a bargain at twice
the price,
if you review the documentation attached to CM Sinenci’s resolution you will see that in 1961
the Board of Supervisors for Maui County unanimously agreed even then that it was a good
idea for the County to have control of the EMI water and used terms like “immediate solu
tion,” “necessary” and “should.”
This was their concluding paragraph written over 60 years ago...
“There is adequate water for all concerned; however, no one party should control its sale
or usage as to be detrimental to others. The County being a subdivision of the State should
have as much rights to the usage of State water as the present licensee. Water is the basic
natural resource necessary for economic development and growth of the island and should
not be controlled as to prevent new development.”
And that is as true now as it was then! More so!
What do you think their opinion would have been if the entity poised to control that resource
was a foreign owned corporation?
We have a catastrophic lack of affordable housing on Maui island. This can be directly tied
to the Fixture unit limitations imposed by DWS. With adequate water resources homeown
ers, farmers and ranchers could upgrade their meters to facilitate building accessory dwell
ings, labor housing and irrigation systems. Our farmers and ranchers reduce their crop and
herd sizes every year because even though our island is one of the wettest locations on the
planet Earth we have no guarantee of water during our most critical time of year - harvest
season.
Please stop kicking the can down the road and secure Maui’s water future!
Reso 22-4
Take on the responsibility for the East Maui Irrigation Aqueduct System and secure a 30 year
lease for our water! The Ag Working Group wholeheartedly supports this investment in our
future! oo XIOm
Sydney Smith, facilitator, Ag Working Group
Maliko Estate Coffee, 808-268-3646 call/text
;ncil who ncetiod inpul'iking Group ivus formed in .‘’.(il 3 by Li
Iroin ihe Ag community.
'.'V ai e comprised of neulra! rcpicsenUitivo; lo in:
M.iui (!ounty l arm ISuivau ● .M.iui iMnnors Union l.hiitcd ● (.ofree A'^siKialion
.\l.uii ( killlcmcns /\s>oci<Uion ● M.uii Mov.t.'r (irowers Associalion
Kulci and Makawao ('ommunitv .Vssodations
\g Uliair' ■ w
bt R.
7;
\nd include members from i Ia\e.iii Stale Dcparimem oI Agriculture. .Maui (..'ounly .Administration,
1 lawaii Depai lmcnl ol Land and Natural Rcsoui\.e\ and .Maui (.ount}' Coiini.il AG\VOi.'K.INGGr:C;o
Count^^leH<
Chuck Spence <Chuck@mauisunseeker.com>
Friday, January 7, 2022 7:11 AM
County Clerk
Shane M. Sinenci
In favor of Resolution for County of Maui to take over EMI Water Leases
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
ISome people who received this message don't often get email from chuck@mauisunseeker.com. Learn why this is important
Aloha County of Maui,
I am strongly in support of the County of Maui taking over the water leases from EMI and encourage adoption and
passage of Shane Sinenci's resolution providing so.
We residents and agricultural producers living on North Shore and Upcountry have been unduly harmed by the
corporate greed and unwillingness to share the wai for too many years.
To have ag property owners denied a water meter because of the mismanagement of our greatest resource is
criminal. We need fair representation of ALL people of Maui in this matter, not to just those who stole the land from the
Hawaiian people. That is why I support the County adopting the water leases from EMI.
I strongly encourage adoption of this resolution.
Sincerely,
OO
oCZ2}
rn
Chuck Spence
400 Mehana Rd,
Haiku, HI 96708
73
m3s»
oI
●<
oo 3:**T1 3;
mm -1
:axm a
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Amy Stephens <rainbowcountrymaui@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 11:38 PM
County Clerk
Testimony for the 1/7/22 County Council meeting regarding Bill 148 and County
Communication 22-9
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from rainbowcountrymaui@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Aloha County Council,
I am providing testimony regarding Bill 148 and County Communication 22-9.
Please work together to override Mayor Victorino's veto of bill 148. Maui needs your support to implement a
moratorium on new Transient Accommodations on Maui, and pause further development of new hotels, timeshares,
short-term rental homes, and transient vacation rental units, for two years or until tourism management measures are
implemented as the council intended when the bill was proposed and passed on 12/3/21. A moratorium would give us
time to address Maui's overtourism issues. We are at a tipping point on Maui where families are being pushed out by
greed for tourist dollars.
Please override the veto and speak by action for the people of Maui.
Mahalo for your time,
Amy Stephens
Napili
OO
“i m
:x3mo1
mcs-<
c <O -n
mm (30
O
—j
1
County Clerk
Kainalu Steward <stewardk@hawaii.edu>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 8:31 PM
County Clerk
in support of Bill 148 (also reference County Communication 22-9)
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from stewardk@hawaii.edu. Learn why this is important
Aloha to whom this email concerns:
I am writing this in support of Bill 148 and to kindly ask council members to overturn Mayor Victorinos veto of this bill.
Being born and raised on the West side of Maui, 1 have seen how tourism has affected our local communities and
families while growing worse over the years. It saddens me to see my home town being overrun and disrespected by
ignorant tourists and mismanaged by the county and state. Furthermore, the high influx of tourism on the West side of
Maui and across the islands opens up more opportunities for outsiders to buy up property that will only displace our
local and native people while also raising the cost of living in our own homeland. We need to prioritize other avenues of
economic growth that will not negatively affect the quality of living for our local community, especially if we want a
sustainable future for our children.
O-nPlease support Bill 148 and overturn the mayors veto for our future generations! :x)5=>» mme ka ha'aha'a,
Kainalu Steward
oI
-< o. rnoo -IT
m mgpZIX
7^ m D
M.S Student, Tropical Conservation Biology & Environmental Science
University of Hawaii at Hilo
stewardk@hawaii.edu
Ov
1
Count^£led<
r
2I1ZZ JAN -6 AH 8: 16From:
Sent:
Mimi Tackaberry <mimiboyumberry@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 7:02 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148
To:
OFFICE OF THE
OUNTY CLERKnSubject:
You don't often get email from mimiboyumberry@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Regarding the Mayor's veto of Bill 148, my biggest concern is
WATER
- In 2016 when I asked the Maui Water Department to be put on the waiting list for a water meter, I was told "There
is no waiting list."
- During the increasingly frequent droughts many Olinda residents on catchment have had to have water trucked in.
- The Water Dept mails restriction notices to Kula residents almost annually, recently threatening fines for non-
compliance. Kula farmers were given a three month grace period and then were expected to comply with the restriction
mandate. Farmers have to bite the bullet while developers tap into our limited resources for the benefit of non
residents.
- Why hasn't the County upgraded our water system to keep up with demand? Until this issue is resolved a
moratorium on construction of new visitor accommodations is just plain common sense.
-1 urge the Council to override the Mayor's veto and pass Billl48. Until such time as Maui's water system has been
updated to accommodate our current residential and agricultural needs, it is folly to add to the demand.
Sent with Aloha
Mimi Boyum Tackaberry
1
County Clerk
Luanne Teoh <luanne.teoh@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 8:52 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148, County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient Accomm^ations
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
oo 73
mYou don't often get email from luanne.teoh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important 2.0H OIm FTlWed Jan 5 2022 CN-<OO :=»●
RE: Bill 14.8. CounW Communication 22-Q
Moratorium on Transient Accommodations
rnm CO
O7; n
Aloha Maui County Council Members,
I am writing this letter in support of the moratorium on \dsitor accommodations on Maui that was
passed by the County Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino.
Please override his veto.
As a full time resident of Maui I ask that you consider the voices of the residents who have been
asking for tourism management for the last two years. Victorino’s veto is doing the exact opposite. I
live in South Kihei and the traffic along South Kihei road is congested on a daily basis.
The increase in visitors has also resulted in an increase of accidents and ocean rescues which is a
drain on emergency resources. I see and hear rescue helicopters, coast guard, and emergency vehicles
daily from my lanai (facing Kamaole 3).
The influx in tourism since we opened up in October 2020 has adversely affected the quality of lives of
Maui residents. From prolonged water restrictions, increased traffic, and jostling -with tourists while
going about our daily chores. Meanwhile, the resorts in Wailea are all operating with multiple
swimming pools and thousands of hotel rooms filled to the brim.
The pandemic has also demonstrated that Hawaii’s reliance on tourism is not only risky, it is outright
irresponsible. When it’s not cheap to live here, Hawaii should not be a cheap place to \dsit. Mass
tourism being encouraged by rock bottom airfares only seive to cheapen Hawaii’s reputation while
doing harm to the quality of life of local residents, the ecosystem, and the environment, not to
mention an incredible drain on our resources.
The over reliance on tourism to sustain the island’s economy is not a good long term strategy. The
question is not what pandemic will hit next. It is WHEN the next pandemic will hit. And once again, it
will bring Hawaii to its knees when it happens.
The quicker we can diversify from this tourism only strategy, the better we vsill all be.
The fact that local residents have to wiite letters again and again about the same issues and
specifically Victorino’s self-ser\dng interest policies is wrong on so many levels.
1
Once again, I am asking you to please override his veto.
Thank you for reading my letter, I trust you will do the right thing.
To protect the land for future generations and to protect the people from a further eroding quality of
life.
Mahalo.
Luanne Teoh
Kihei, Maui.
// Luanne Teoh
//+1.415.335.1447
// Clean Food Dirtv Girl
2
County Clerk RFn"n/ED
mi JAN -7 AM 7: 56From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:43 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To:
■■'FFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
Get Outlook for IPS
From: Claire Thompson <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:23:16 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Claire Thompson
cschiff09@gmail.com
2747 S Kihei Road, A306
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
Count^^lerk pp^rziv/mn
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:43 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
20?? JAN -7 AH 7: 56
To:
Subject: ● "[●●ICE
'■‘-'■'.UNTY CLERK
r~
THE
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Tytan Timoteo <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Thursday, January 6, 2022 3:20:51 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Tytan Timoteo
timoteotytan@gmail.com
523 Ekahi Way
Kihei, Hawaii 96753
1
County Clerk n ^ i'-'' '' ^ ^
From:
Sent:
MaryTrotto <Mary.Trotto@liu.edu>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 6:42 AM
County Clerk
support for Bill 148 overriding the Mayor's veto
im M -5 M 7: 48
To:
Subject: OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
You don't often get email from mary.trotto@liu.edu. Learn whv this is important
Aloha County Council members,
Thank you for voting for Bill 148 in December.
Now that the Mayor has vetoed this bill, the “ball” is
in your “court’. There is much to be learned about
living on this Island with responsible growth.
Bill 148 is a short term solution to a problem that has been
growing since the 90’s. It is time for all of us to step back,
assess what is good for the Island and its surrounding eco systems.
We are custodians of a billion dollar reef in our near shore waters, we
have a need for affordable housing for our residents, we need to look
at how much water we consume and its availability, what is the cost for maintenance
of our infrastructure and how much trash we create and our ability to deal with it.
Quality of life here on Maui needs to be assessed not just for our residents but
also for our visitors. Visitors to our Island pay large amounts of money to come
to Maui to experience the beauty of Maui, its coastal vistas, sunsets, quality of
the water and quality of its life. Residents and visitors alike need those in county
government
to do the right thing to maintain Maui County as  aplace of beauty.
Affordable housing, traffic issues, and infrastructure maintenance are issues we must
address. Further development of visitor accommodations must be curtailed for a short
time in order to evaluate what we already have and how well what currently exists is being
utilized. The question: What is needed to provide the best quality of life for both our
residents and
our visitors? Do you have an answer?
Thank you for your consideration to vote to override the Mayor’s veto.
With warmest aloha,
Dr Mary Trotto
Kihei Resident
1
OpEPxiVTiNG Engineers Local Union No. 3
2181 LAUWILIWILI STREET, KAPOLEl, HI 96707 ● (808) 845-7871 ● FAX (808) 682-0906
Jurisdiction: Northern California, Northern Nevada, Utah, Hawaii, and the Mid-Pacific Islands
January 7, 2022
Honorable, Alice Lee, Maui County Council, Chair
Honorable, Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, Maui County Council, Vice Chair
Honorable Members of the Maui County Council
RE: Regarding Maui County Council Communication CC22-9 Mayor, notifying of his veto of Bill 148
(2021), Draft 1, entitled "A BILL FOR AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CHAPTER 19.98, MAUI COUNTY
CODE, DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON NE\A/ TRANSIENT ACCOMODATIONS ON MAUI."
Chair Lee:
My name is Analeseanoa Tuiasosopo and I am the District Representative for Hawaii Operating
Engineers Locai 3. Our union represents the 3000 hardworking unionized members in heavy
engineering site work. We are in support of the mayor's veto and ask that you do NOT override it.
I am aware of and concerned about the intent of the measure that was passed by the
Maui County Council. Our organization strongiy believes that Bill 148, as it is currently written, will not
have the intended effects sought by the Council and will inadvertently hurt not only Maui's overall
tourism industry but also have adverse consequences for countless other businesses that rely on
tourism to employ thousands of Maui residents.
1 also believe a moratorium on building permits will have the unintended effect of depressing the
market for other sectors of the economy, including the construction industry and other various skilled
trades—many of which rely upon the tourism industry for their economic well being. The issuance of
building permits ultimately means more projects, more jobs, and more opportunities for Maui residents;
limiting this for our economy on the heels of a worldwide pandemic is self-destructive and will have
lasting economic consequences for Maui County. Meaningful and substantive investment into Maui's
economy could be jeopardized or lost.
Sincerely,
Analeseanoa Tuiasosopo
District Representative- Hawaii
Hawaii Operating Engineers Local 3
Count^C!eH<
From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 3;50 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To:
Subject:
OO
Sent from my iPad O 73' 1
C m
oBegin forwarded message: H Irn< Ov nooFrom: Cameron Uphoff <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Date: January 6, 2022 at 3:34:35 PM HST
To: "Tamara A. Paltin" <Tamara.Paltin@mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Reply-To: uphoffcameron@gmail.com
T1
rnm ~i
Om CO
Councilmember Tamara Paltin
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
1 urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Cameron Uphoff
uphoffcameron@gmail.com
lOOOheala PI
Makawao, Hawaii 96768
1
Count^CIerk RFnr-i\/Fn
From:
Sent:
Leina Wender <waiokila@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 10:42 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148; County Communication 22-9
im JAN -6 AH 8: 17
To:
OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY CLERK
Subject:
[You don't often get email from waiokila@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
To the Maui County Council:
1 strongly support Bill 148. The county needs to utilize whatever tools it has to put the breaks on tourism. Apparently
we can't stop people from coming here, but we can limit the rooms available. It is obvious to everyone that we already
have way too many tourists and are in violation of the standards set in our county plans. Bill 148 is just one of many
steps needed to start to address this imbalance.
Mahalo for advancing this proposal.
Elaine Wender
1
RECEIVEDCountyClerk
im M -1 A?1 7: 56From:
Sent:
Tamara A. Paltin
Thursday, January 6, 2022 4:45 PM
County Clerk
Fwd: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
To: rnCG OF TH£Subject: ,:OUNTY CLERK
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Temple Weste <info@email.actionnetwork.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 4, 2022 3:16:31 PM
To: Tamara A. Paltin <Tamara.Paltin(S)mauicounty.us>
Subject: Sustain the Veto of Bill 148
Councilmember Tamara Paltin,
Tourism is an important part of our local economy. The revenue generated from visitors funds
Maui schools, environmental agencies, public safety, and more.
If we stop building hotels and visitor accommodations, it won't stop visitors from coming to
our island. Instead, they will stay in short-term rentals crowding and interrupting our
neighborhoods.
I urge you to stand with Mayor Victorino and vote to sustain his veto of Bill 148.
Thank you
Temple Weste
templemaui@yahoo.com
200 Hina Ave
Kahului, Hawaii 96732
1
Count^Clerk
From:
Sent:
Naomi Wick <naomiwick@gmail.com>
Tuesday, January 4, 2022 8:42 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148
To:
Subject:
[You don't often get email from naomiwick(S)gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
http://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderldentification.]
Please override the mayor's veto of the Maui county over-tourism moratorium. I support a minimum two year hiatus on
developments that simply supply short-term rentals to Maui county visitors. We need long-term safe housing,
foundational education, and gainful employment opportunities to make Maui county the best it can be for all our
residents!
Truly,
Naomi Wick
(808)264-5781 es>
o oO
C2i
50“im
73mOI
1rv\-n-< I  i
oo
rnm -1
O✓ N 00
1
Coujnt^^leH< RFn’=iV£D
im M -6 AH 8: 16From:
Sent:
Steve Wilson <steve.lwilson@yahoo.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 9:32 PM
County Clerk
BILL 148 Si COUNTY COMMUNICATION 22-9
To:
01:fice of theCOUNTY CLERK
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from steve.lwilson@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
With Warmest Aloha to the Maui County Council Members,
I am writing to once again voice my support for the moratorium on visitor accommodations. I believe I speak in concert
with tens of thousands of fellow Maui neighbors and ohana that support the idea of placing a hold on what has been
extraordinary and exponential growth of tourism, especially over the last ten to fifteen years. Each and every year, the
numbers rise and rise in excess of what resources we have to support this incredible explosion of tourism. It simply
cannot be sustainable at this rate. We need time to prepare and deal with it in a responsible way. Our quality of life should
not be second to a numbers game.
By passing this moratorium, we position ourselves to reboot the visitor industry to return Maui to a higher degree of
exclusivity, it allows the existing accommodations venues to catch up and become more competitive for a higher
standard of visitor. By adding more rooms, by allowing more short term rentals, all keeps prices artificially low, allowing
more and more visitors to crowd our small island and to overburden our very limited resources, including water,
wastewater facilities, and our roads. We have residents going years without water, while additional hotels and resorts will
absorb yet even more. The quality of life on Maui has sunken. I see it. My neighbors see it, and I am positive each of
you sees it.
Additionally, we have seen our friends and neighbors struggle to find affordable housing. Many of which, serve the visitor
industry. Adding more hotels and resorts will require hundreds, perhaps thousands of more employees to run these new
facilities, and we must ask ourselves, where are these people going to live? Maui has reached and surpassed total
saturation of the tourist industry. We are now adding more and more concrete just to park cars. Hana highway has
become a nightmare, an endless tourist-train of cars. I reside in Hana. I now shudder to think of driving it now when it
used to be an absolute joy.
Just recently, last summer, the Governor and Mayor made progress to curb tourism. The leaders were successful in
putting into place certain measures to address the over-tourism, and what I speak of are the higher accommodations tax,
the crack down on illegal short-term rentals, a tax incentive to convert short terms to long terms, raising property taxes on
short-term rental properties, and several new licensing requirements for short-term rentals. These are all great measures
that will only be diluted by more hotels and resorts. We cannot back-petal these wonderful advances. We need time to
absorb their effectiveness before we allow more facilities that destroy the quality of life we alt deserve and expect. Maui
tourism will always be present as long as we don't chase visitors away with the blight of over-tourism. That can and has
happened to other favored destinations. Let's not make the same fatal mistakes. We must venture into the future with our
eyes open to also preserve the quality of the visit. We need tourism, but Maui is also positioned to chose them. We need
to protect ourselves and our visitors from over-tourism, or we chance ruining our precious lifestyle and opportunities.
We need to work and build on what we have, not add to it. We need to hone it. We need to perfect it. With a more
exclusive visitor, we will build on that visitor. Consider the mindset that Maui, as a host, and in the realm of the costs of
supporting a visitor, the infrastructure cost is  aconstant per visitor no matter their level of social stature. Each visitor
consumes the same average amount of water, wastewater and treatment facility costs, landfill needs, consumes the same
amount of locally grown foods, same airport facility use, a need for a rental car, and more. There is  adollar number on
each visitor’s head, and it's the same for all. Let’s increase the revenue while reducing the infrastructure costs and
demand. Wouldn't it be nice to position the available rooms to limit tourism, which would effectively raise room rates,
which again would raise pre-taxed revenue, thereby increasing taxable revenue on top of the newly increased tax rate of
the accommodations taxes, all to effect an increase of tax revenue to the County, only to end up paying less to host less
visitors based on a per-visitor cost? The answer is simple. YES. Less burden on natural resources, less wastewater and
treatment, less traffic congestion, more available housing, more available local foods, better quality of life and a better
quality of visit, all with more revenue.
1
Please vote to overturn Mayor Victorino’s veto. It's pono, and what the residents want. Its what each of you really wants.
A better life for us all and for our keiki and their keiki. We ail look to each of you, and to Mayor Victorino, for leadership of
our direction...to represent the wants of the residents, not to represent the wants of visitors. Lets work to build on what we
have and allow a couple of years to see what the recent changes can actually do instead of mindlessly sabotaging them
all. Vote YES for the moratorium.
Steve Wilson
Hana, Maui
2
County Clerk
f^£'OL!VgpFrom:
Sent:
Charlene Yoshimura <charcanhe!p@gmail.com>
Wednesday, January 5, 2022 1:56 PM
County Clerk
Bill 148, County Communication 22-9 Moratorium on Transient AcGommp^^o^^^^ r-
COUNTY CLERK
Z0Z2 JAN -5 PH |: 59To:
Subject:
IYou don't often get email from charcanhelp@amail.com. Learn why this is important
January 5, 2022
Aloha Maui County Council Members:
I am writing this letter in support of the moratorium on visitor accommodations on Maui, that was passed by
the County Council and vetoed by Mayor Victorino. PLEASE override his veto! This moratorium is a crucial
step toward remediating the current unregulated over-tourism we are seeing here.
The Maui Island Plan suggests limiting the number of visitors to approximately 1/3 the number of residents in
order to preserve our environment, infrastructure, and quality of life for residents--all of which would
improve the visitor experience as well.
The year 2019 was already a year of uncontrolled growth, fueled by the tourism industry. Promises were
made by leaders during the early part of the pandemic to improve on the tourism experience for both visitors
and residents. Residents were promised that the goal would be to decrease the number of tourists while
protecting the islands. Since October of 2020, those promises have been completely forgotten by our leaders,
who proudly announce that the goal of reaching 2019 numbers has been met and now exceeded.
The current volume of tourists we were seeing pre-pandemic in 2021, during the pandemic, is a threat to the
health, safety and quality of life of the residents of Maui, our environment and wildlife.
Our island resources are very limited. Our inadequate sewage treatment, water, and landfills are not meant
for this level of use. We just finished months of  asevere water shortage, yet only Upcountry residents were
affected, not tourists. While my yard dried up and died due to not watering it, the hotels were literally sucking
up water as if there is no restriction. While sewage is discharged into our oceans, tourists are overcrowding
our beaches and cruelly abusing our wildlife. Our fishing industry is endangered by the abuse the ocean
environment is experiencing.
On Maui, tourists do not stay in the tourist areas, but drive all over the island, causing huge traffic
congestion—and this is despite the rental car shortage. Tourists don't even think twice about using up
resources meant for residents, such as UHauls! I have seen horrific pictures of the road to Hana being blocked
by tourists who choose to park on the road, blocking traffic, because of lack of parking.
Residents are literally being told that we do not count and that the tourism industry is all-powerful. Our
mayor has not shown any support of controlling tourism, including vetoing the last proposed moratorium for
south and west Maui and vetoing the affordable housing bill. He goes out of his way to please the big money
brought in by the tourism industry and mainland investors. He has made it clear that residents are second
class citizens to tourists. It is the responsibility of government officials to ensure that there is adequate
affordable housing for those who are essential to making our community work (health care professionals,
teachers, police, social workers, restaurant workers, grocery/retail workers and yes, workers in tourism), not
to incentivize nonresidents' profiting off tourism.
Residents here sacrifice a great deal financially to live here and deserve to be able to enjoy the beaches, hikes
and parks. Instead, there is no room for residents on any of these. The majority of residents here do not
1
depend at all on the tourist industry—yet all of us are made to sacrifice for it. For me, it is about more than a
financial sacrifice, as this is not only my birthplace but also that of my ancestors. Hardworking residents are
trying not to be chased out by greedy leaders who put short-term profit first.
Our economy needs to be diversified. Our children need to be taught skills that will help them to succeed in
society, rather than just to serve tourists. We need a moratorium on future visitor accommodations while
solutions can be implemented, including leadership that supports resident lives over the tourism industry.
Residents are SO tired of having to write letters again and again and testifying again and again for something
that seems so common-sense. I am so disappointed in our Mayor, who despite being a Maui Boy, so obviously
supports the moneyed tourist industry over residents' quality of life. He has sold us out, and 1 for one will do
all 1 can to ensure that someone who supports residents' quality of life will replace him in the next election.
1 appreciate the members of the Maui County Council greatly. With few exceptions, you are the leaders who
put residents and the ‘aina first.
Mahalo,
Charlene Yoshimura
Ph/Text: 808-344-3245
2