MINUTES | hi-maui | Special Council Meeting | 2026-01-05
SOURCE: https://mauicounty.api.civicclerk.com/v1/Meetings/GetMeetingFileStream(fileId=3796,plainText=false)
STATUS: civicclerk-pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

 1 
MAUI COUNTY COUNCIL 
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING 
MINUTES 
 
January 5, 2026 
9:00 AM 
 
Pursuant to §92-3.7, Hawaii Revised Statutes, the meeting was conducted as a 
remote meeting by interactive conference technology, via Microsoft Teams, 
http://tinyurl.com/2p9zhjr2. 
 
In person testimony and viewing: Council Chamber, Kalana O Maui Building, 8th 
Floor, 200 S. High Street, Wailuku, Hawaii. 
 
Video recording of meeting available at: www.mauicounty.legistar.com 
 
Roll Call 
 
Councilmember Pres. Abs. Exc. Time(s) In/Out  
(during meeting) 
CM Kauanoe Batangan √    
Vice Chair Yuki Lei 
Sugimura 
√    
CM Tamara Paltin   √  
CM Gabe Johnson  √    
CM Keani Rawlins-
Fernandez 
√    
CM Tom Cook √    
CM Nohelani Uʻu-
Hodgins 
√    
CM Shane Sinenci √    
Chair Alice L. Lee √    
TOTAL PRESENT 8  1  
 
Reso 26 -1 "AMENDING RESOLUTION 25 -5, FD1, ON THE COUNCIL'S 
STANDING COMMITTEES' VOTING MEMBERS" 
 
 AYE NO EXC Time Deliberations Began 9:12 a.m. 
CM Batangan √   Time Motion Made 9:12 a.m. 
VC Sugimura √   Motion  Adopt 
CM Paltin   √ Maker Sugimura 
CM Johnson √   Seconder Uʻu-Hodgins 
CM Rawlins-
Fernandez 
√   Time Vote Taken 9:16 a.m. 
CM Cook √     
 2 
CM Uʻu-Hodgins √     
CM Sinenci √     
Chair Lee √     
TOTAL VOTES 8  1 MOTION PASSED  
 
Time meeting adjourned: 9:20 a.m. 
MAUICOUNTY |7eeb957b-d0d4-44d4-8554-4712967daa37
Well, the special meeting of January 5 2026. Please come to order. It's905, and Ijust realized it'sMy brother's birthday Good
morning. Council members, staffand members of the public.Special aloha to our new Luis member Carnoy But Tonga sworn in this
morning. The special council meeting of January 5 willcome to order and make clerk.Please proceed with rollcall.Thank you,
Chair. Proceeding with rollcall.Ifthere are any members thatare participatingonline,pleaseletus know who, ifanyone exceptminors are present with you Councilmember Cohen, Ibe Tonga here Vice Chair you please to Kimura here Council Member
Tomorrow paulton Excuse councilmember Gabe Johnson Aloha Chair.
Council members. Committee members. There's no testifiers at the Ninth Districtoffice.Now. I'm here and ready to work. Mahalo.
Council member County RollinsFernandez our law clerk.Clerk.Yaka chair.Aloha Yuka callLono incoming KeikiThere are currently
no testifiers at the Molokai District office. Mahalo. Thank you. Council member Tom Cook happily here and there are no testifiersin
Kihei,but we have staffon standby Thank you. Councilman No. Hey, Lani Hudgins Good morning, everyone. Happy New Year
Councilmember Shane Nancy Aloha. Cook. Iecho happy birthday and Welcome aboard. Thank you. You. And Council Chair Alice
Lee good morning.
I'm here to you. We have eight members present. One excuse you have a quorum to conduct the business of the council for the
record, Iam the county clerk.One Ludie and seated next to me isthe deputy clerk,Rochelle Thompson also from the officeof the
county Clerk or LegislativeDivisionstaff.Joyce moore, as she Dale Yoshida and Arthur C Yama assistingthe council with
maintaining order and decorum iscouncilAmbassador Ryan Martins joiningthe meeting from the officeof Council Services is
Directordavid Roberts and LegislativeAttorney Megan Moniz and from the Department of the Corporation Council iscorporation
councilVictoriaTucker USA and FirstDeputy Mimi Jordan So do we have any testifiershere?
We have one Testifiercurrentlysigned up. And that isAndrew Amaral Cross His cross iscoming down. Ijust wanted to letyou
know member callme, but the ongoing. We have a traditionhere. So being the newest member, you have to buy us lunch That's
where Chairwoman those that include the audience as well Yeah, why not now anyway Aloha. Aloha Aloha Good morning, my frienc
I'm Xandra. I'm Raul Cross testifyingon your agenda. Idon't, Madam. And Ibelieve that to 96 One I'dliketo take the opportunity
to welcome the new member of your body who willbe representing the citizensof Maui Noy and Tasha karmas, please.
I'm sure he'lldo a great job allof as allof you as the new year came There isone thing that well.I'dliketo Firstof allsay the past
three years have been very tryingfor allof you and the administration and our mayor and his staffAnd I'dliketo say, as a citizen,
thank you very much forthe job you've done and continue to do And offer.Know that I'vebeen very difficult,especially for the
citizensof Lahaina and other areas But Iam reallyIwas looking over the suggested communities and Iwas very happy with what I
saw I know that with the new council member, there were Three very good candidates and I'dliketo tellthe sittingcouncil that I
know itwas very very difficultforallof you and making a selectionand thank You all,and thank you for those that stepped up in
the coming year.
Ithink that collaborationand between yourselves One thing I'dliketo eliminate or see eliminated because Icannot eliminate that.
Idon't Idon'tsaid,what you said isthe mentalityof us against you. The Four five mentality might ido council members remember
ifyou're thinking that you're one of the five,are you One of the four? You are putting that energy out to your fellow council
members, which means ifyou're thinkingit,you're owning itand you're projecting itnot only to yourselves but to the community
as well as we tellour children, as we think as we what's in our heart iswhat we do get ridof that mentality because allof you are
far far above all of that.
Ithank allof you. Look forward to you working very harmoniously And Iknow you won't agree on everything but that'sokay. Just
know that it'snot four against five.Itisnine forthe county of Boeing. The citizensof Boeing knowing my law and thank you for
spending allChristmas allXandra hellohappy new year. Thank you. Same to you. Any questions, members Ifnot, thank you. And
we have the next Testifier Sure, the next Testifier is Daniel Ornelas Good morning. Council members My name is Daniel. Unless I'm
the districtland agent for the state department of Land and Natural Resources But I'm here under my personal capacity justto
welcome Callannoyed button gone to the team.
And Imet this young man, as we allknow, isvery skilledand talented and i look forward to a prosperous 2026 with allother
members Imet him through the FirstNations program. With the coming of our schools. Itwas a program where they tried to
gather mid profession goals to create networks and organizations and relationships. So that we can move our people forward in a
more productive and worthwhile way. Because Hawaii, we have so much assets as you guys allknow, and deal with on a daily
basis.So do I.So anything ican bring to the table to better coordinate and help in that whole vision and dream. I'm here.
And again, callIllinois.Congratulations. Welcome to the team. And good luck council members in this new year. Thank you. Thank
you, You, Daddy. Any questions Ifnot. Happy New Year to you, too Turn. There's currently no one else signed up to testify,is
there? Ifthere isanyone in chambers who would liketo please make your way to the podium Otherwise, you can raise your hand
in teams This is last call and the countdown is 3, 2, 1, Chair there's no one indicating a desire to testifyMembers Are there any
objections to closing public testimony and accepting written testimony ?
OK. So ordered Miss Clark Turbeville for year's Resolution 26 one amending Resolution 25 551 on the council's standing
committees Voting members vice chair suki Morrow. Iwillsitdown Imove to adopt resolution number 20 6-1 amending Resolution
20 5-5 51 on the Council standing committees voting members moves by Vice Chair Sycamore seconded by Member hodgins to
adopt a Resolution 20 6-1 amending Resolution 20 5-5 51 Discussion Vice Chair Sycamore Yes. Thank you. I'dliketo welcome our
new member, Carnoy, but tonkin. And as you can see by the resolution,he's pretty much has adopted the positions that were once
occupied or done by our late member, Tasha comma.
So Isupport what you have proposed here Any more discussion No discussion Member Rollins Fernandez followed her I,I support
the motion on the floorThat's what Iexpected that we were going to do it.Appreciate it.Does allof that, but itjust changes our
member Hodgins, from the great committee chair to the vice chair and has member with someone as the chair there. And then
member Hodgins as the chair of each other. You and member. But hang on as the vice chair.So itdoes change out. Like where
late member comma was positioned That's the only change for the public information and what am Ito remember?
But hang on maybe just remember, ifyou high your lastname missing incorrectlyor how do you because Iheard a couple of ways
I'm glad you asked that question. Ithink.Wait a minute. Iget sorry. Ithought Iknew both teams. And thisMike thank you. Chair.
And thank you member RollinsFernandez forthe question It'sannoying, but I'm going Good OK Mahalo. Yeah And so Isupport this
monitor. Thank you Member Johnson thank you. Chair. I'lljust add one more change in the roster of my committee. The debt
committee where the new council member. Barton Gunn, willbe joining the TCP/IP Committee and council member yuki sugiyama
willbe leaving my committee.
So with hisexperience in publictransportationit'sone of the topicsmatters of my committee iwelcome with open arms and
extend a laureland Hardy handshake to you. And welcome aboard. Thank you. Chair Thank you. Any more discussion Mr.. So,
Nancy, you feel leftout because we we do we mispronounce your and we always butcher my name. Oh, sorry Each insultingpair.
May we ask a member to please pronounce itfor us so that we can be and that's.And then she. There's an H in there. No Oh,
thank you, Chair. I,too, wanted to welcome a board member, but tongue into the gun a tongue and gun, not give Yeah, but tongue
gun to the of what subcommittee and we have a lotof discussions about mental health then and the houseless community.
A lotof which isin the central district.So so I'm glad you're on board. And you can offera lotof recommend ations in the
subcommittee. So supportive Chair. Thank you Allright.Any more discussion ifnot allthose in favor of the motion, please raise
your hands. Iabsolutely, Isee Eight eyes on excuse motion carries Right, members. That brings us to the end of the calendar for
this item. However, we have a more exciting exciting meeting at 1:30 this afternoon. Ilook forward to see you allagain this and
this meeting isadjourned