MINUTES | hi-honolulu | 2022-04-20 PIT - Apr 20, 2022 | 2022-04-20
SOURCE: https://honolulu.granicus.com/MinutesViewer.php?view_id=3&clip_id=1844
STATUS: minutes-html
------------------------------------------------------------

Skip to main content 

 Honolulu City Council 
 Honolulu Records Collection 

 Export Individual Measures

 PDF 
 XLSX 

 PDF Version 

 Home 
 Agendas 

 Agenda 

 Page numbers may not match those on the PDF version of the Agenda.

 Page 1 

 CITY COUNCIL CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813-3077   

 COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY 

 Voting Members: Carol Fukunaga, Chair Andria Tupola, Vice Chair Brandon J.C. Elefante Heidi Tsuneyoshi 

 AGENDA 

 REGULAR MEETING 

 CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 

 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2022 

 1:00 P.M. 

 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND TESTIMONY 

 Pursuant to Act 220, Session Laws of Hawaii 2021, in order to allow public participation in a manner consistent with safe COVID-19 practices, this meeting will be conducted as a remote meeting by interactive conference technology, with the following procedures in effect for the meeting: 

 VIEWING THE MEETING 

 The meeting will be viewable: (1) by internet live streaming through https://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings or olelo.org ; (2) by televised live broadcast on ‘Ōlelo TV Channel 54; and (3) on the monitor situated outside the Council Chamber. Viewers who experience a loss of viewing signal should try switching to another viewing option. 

 After the meeting, the meeting will be viewable on demand at https://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings . Copies of older meeting videos may be requested by calling the City Clerk’s Office at (808) 768‑5822, charges may apply. 

 Some Councilmembers and presenters may be participating in the meeting by interactive conference technology from remote locations. 

 ORAL TESTIMONY 

 Oral testimony will be permitted on all items on the agenda, subject to the following restrictions: 

 Each speaker may not have anyone else read their statement and is limited to a one‑minute presentation. 

 Remote Testimony 

 1. Persons may submit oral testimony remotely through the Zoom video conferencing platform. To participate, persons should visit https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony . Videoconference access information 

 Page 2 

 will be provided upon submission of testimony/registration. Zoom testifiers are strongly encouraged to register at least 24 hours before the start of the meeting. 

 2. To submit oral testimony by phone only, please contact the Council Information Section at (808) 768-5822 to register and obtain telephone access information. 

 In-Person Testimony in the Council Chamber 

 Persons may also submit oral testimony in the Council Chamber. 

 Persons wishing to testify are requested to register by 1:00 p.m. by filling out the registration form in person outside the Council Chamber. Persons who have not registered will be given an opportunity to speak following the oral testimonies of the registered speakers. 

 Members of the public entering the Council Chamber are requested to spread themselves out. If the Chamber becomes crowded, members of the public may be requested to wait outside the Chamber until called to testify. 

 Persons who have registered for oral testimony, both remote and in-person, will be called to testify when the relevant measure is taken up by the Committee, and then closed, in the following order: 

 1. Remote testimony will be taken first and then closed; 

 2. In-person testimony in the Council Chamber will be taken second and then closed. 

 INSTRUCTIONS ON PROVIDING ORAL TESTIMONY 

 Before the Hearing 

 The Zoom link will be activated 20-30 minutes prior to the scheduled start time for the hearing. Please join the meeting early so we can clearly identify participants before the hearing begins. 

 •  Please join the Zoom meeting using the first and last name you provided when submitting your registration. This is how we will identify you. Testifiers who have followed the registration process outlined above will be allowed to testify during the Zoom meeting. 

 Page 3 

 During the Hearing 

 All testifiers must utilize their computer audio to participate and you are strongly encouraged to share your video when testifying. 

 •  This link explains how to test your computer speaker and microphone. 

 •  During the hearing your microphone should be muted and video camera turned off until it is your turn to testify. Legislative staff may mute participants or turn off your video as necessary. 

 •  When the item you want to testify on is taken up: 

 o  Please utilize the Raise Hand button to indicate your desire to speak on the item. 

 o  Before testifying, please state your full name. 

 •  If you do not respond or encounter technical problems when the Chair calls on you, you may not be able to testify. 

 •  For those that may be joining by telephone only, you will be identified by the last three digits of your phone number. When your phone number is called, there may be a slight delay. Please press *6 to unmute yourself when prompted. Before testifying, please state your full name. 

 •  Testifiers will not be allowed to testify while driving. 

 Additional Tips and Reminders 

 •  To help ensure successful participation in the hearing, please test your audio and video before joining the meeting and check the chat panel frequently until it is your turn to testify. 

 •  Your internet speed will affect the quality of your audio and video in the meeting. The City Council and City Clerk will not be responsible for users’ connection issues and technical problems. We recommend joining the meeting from a hard-wired broadband internet connection whenever possible. 

 •  To prevent audio feedback, the sound for any live stream or cable broadcasts of the hearing you have running in the background must be turned off or muted when it is your turn to testify. (There will be a 20 to 30 second delay from the Zoom meeting to the live stream.) 

 Page 4 

 •  You are participating in a public event that is being broadcast live. The Zoom audio/video of the hearing will be part of the public cable broadcast and/or live stream via the internet. Please minimize background noise and consider what is visible in the background of your webcam. 

 Page 5 

 WRITTEN TESTIMONY 

 Written testimony may be uploaded via the internet at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony , or mailed to Office of the City Clerk, Attention: Information Section, 530 South King Street, Room 100, Honolulu, HI 96813. If submitted, written testimonies, including the testifier’s address, e-mail address, and phone number, will be available to the public at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov . 

 Should you have any questions, please call (808) 768-3816 or send an email to kiana.pascual@honolulu.gov . 

 * * * * * * 

 MATERIALS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION 

 Meeting materials (“ board packet ” under HRS Section 92-7.5) are accessible at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/browse/agendas by clicking on the appropriate Council meeting. 

 Accommodations are available upon request to persons with disabilities. Please call (808) 768‑3816 or send an email to kiana.pascual@honolulu.gov at least three working days prior to the meeting. 

 Page 6 

 FOR ACTION 

 1.  RESOLUTION 22-49 – CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS. Requesting the City Administration to update and maintain a comprehensive list of City Boards and Commissions on the City and County of Honolulu’s website. 

 RES22-049 

 2.  RESOLUTION 21-261 – SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Urging Hawaiʻi’s Congressional delegation and the Hawaiʻi State Legislature to amend Federal and State laws related to small cell wireless facilities and their deployment. 

 RES21-261 

 3.  RESOLUTION 22-94 – STREAM MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE. Requesting the City Administration to provide an update to Resolution 21-77, CD1, which requested the City Administration to develop a stream maintenance schedule for City-owned streams and non-stream drainage infrastructure. 

 RES22-094 

 D-0293(22) 

 NORTH SHORE NEIGHBORHOOD BOARD - Testimony on Res22-094 for 04/20/22 Public Infrastructure and Technology meeting.

 D-0300(22) 

 FACILITY MAINTENANCE - Stream maintenance schedule and update, April 2022.

 INFORMATIONAL BRIEFING 

 4.  PERFORMANCE AUDIT OF THE CITY’S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION, SERVICES, AND SUPPORT. 

 CC-139(22) 

 CITY AUDITOR - Presentation to the 04/20/22 PIT Committee Meeting.

 CAROL FUKUNAGA, Chair 

 Committee on Public Infrastructure 

 and Technology 

 Page 

 Office of City Clerk 
 City and County of Honolulu 
 530 South King Street, Suite # 100 
 Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96813 
 (808) 768-5822

 Copyright © 2019 . All rights reserved.

 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Accessibility 
 Feedback 

 Powered by Tyler Technologies 

 Feedback 

 × 

 How was your experience today? 

 Satisfied 

 Okay 

 Not Satisfied 

 Write your experience 

 Would you like to be contacted for further assistance? 

 Yes 

 No 

 How would you like to be contacted? 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Name 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Submit 

 Thank you! 

 × 

 Your feedback makes a difference. 
 We read all feedback and make continuous improvements based on what we learn. 

 Close