MINUTES | hi-honolulu | 2022-04-21 PCS - Apr 21, 2022 | 2022-04-21
SOURCE: https://honolulu.granicus.com/MinutesViewer.php?view_id=3&clip_id=1849
STATUS: minutes-html
------------------------------------------------------------

Skip to main content 

 Honolulu City Council 
 Honolulu Records Collection 

 Export Individual Measures

 PDF 
 XLSX 

 PDF Version 

 Home 
 Agendas 

 Agenda 

 Page numbers may not match those on the PDF version of the Agenda.

 Page 1 

   CITY COUNCIL CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813-3077     

 COMMITTEE ON PARKS AND COMMUNITY SERVICES 

 Voting Members: Augie Tulba, Chair Heidi Tsuneyoshi, Vice Chair Carol Fukunaga Andria Tupola 

 AGENDA 

 REGULAR MEETING 

 CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 

 THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2022 

 2:30 P.M. 

 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND TESTIMONY 

 Pursuant to Act 220, Session Laws of Hawaii 2021, in order to allow public participation in a manner consistent with safe COVID-19 practices, this meeting will be conducted as a remote meeting by interactive conference technology, with the following procedures in effect for the meeting: 

 VIEWING THE MEETING 

 The meeting will be viewable: (1) by internet live streaming through https://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings or olelo.org ; (2) by televised live broadcast on ‘Ōlelo TV Channel 54; and (3) on the monitor situated outside the Council Chamber. Viewers who experience a loss of viewing signal should try switching to another viewing option. 

 After the meeting, the meeting will be viewable on demand at https://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings . Copies of older meeting videos may be requested by calling the City Clerk’s Office at (808) 768‑5822, charges may apply. 

 Some Councilmembers and presenters may be participating in the meeting by interactive conference technology from remote locations. 

 ORAL TESTIMONY 

 Oral testimony will be permitted on all items on the agenda, subject to the following restrictions: 

 Each speaker may not have anyone else read their statement and is limited to a one‑minute presentation. 

 Remote Testimony 

 1. Persons may submit oral testimony remotely through the Zoom video conferencing platform. To participate, persons should visit https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony . Videoconference access information 

 Page 2 

 will be provided upon submission of testimony/registration. Zoom testifiers are strongly encouraged to register at least 24 hours before the start of the meeting. 

 2. To submit oral testimony by phone only, please contact the Council Information Section at (808) 768-5822 to register and obtain telephone access information. 

 In-Person Testimony in the Council Chamber 

 Persons may also submit oral testimony in the Council Chamber. 

 Persons wishing to testify are requested to register by 2:30 p.m. by filling out the registration form in person outside the Council Chamber. Persons who have not registered will be given an opportunity to speak following the oral testimonies of the registered speakers. 

 Members of the public entering the Council Chamber are requested to spr ead themselves out. If the Chamber becomes crowded, members of the public may be requested to wait outside the Chamber until called to testify. 

 All oral testimony, both remote and in-person, will be taken at the start of the agenda and then closed, in the following order: 

 1. Remote testimony will be taken first and then closed; 

 2. In-person testimony in the Council Chamber will be taken second and then closed. 

 WRITTEN TESTIMONY 

 Written testimony may be uploaded via the internet at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony , or mailed to Office of the City Clerk, Attention: Information Section, 530 South King Street, Room 100, Honolulu, HI 96813. If submitted, written testimonies, including the testifier’s address, e-mail address, and phone number, will be available to the public at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov . 

 Should you have any questions, please call (808) 768-3825 or send an email to potto1@honolulu.gov . 

 * * * * * * 

 Page 3 

 MATERIALS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION 

 Meeting materials (“ board packet ” under HRS Section 92-7.5) are accessible at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/browse/agendas by clicking on the appropriate Council meeting. 

 Accommodations are available upon request to persons with disabilities. Please call (808) 768‑3825 or send an email to potto1@honolulu.gov at least three working days prior to the meeting. 

 Page 4 

 FOR ACTION 

 1.  RESOLUTION 22-48 – CLARIFYING PARK RULES. Urging the Department of Parks and Recreation to clarify park rules regarding certain activities in parks to allow for more effective enforcement by the Honolulu Police Department. 

 RES22-048 

 D-0302(22) 

 PARKS AND RECREATION - Support the intent of Resolution 22-48.

 INFORMATIONAL BRIEFING 

 2.  UPDATE ON THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION’S PILOT PARK RANGER PROGRAM . 

 AUGIE TULBA, Chair 

 Committee on Parks and Community Services 

 Page 

 Office of City Clerk 
 City and County of Honolulu 
 530 South King Street, Suite # 100 
 Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96813 
 (808) 768-5822

 Copyright © 2019 . All rights reserved.

 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Accessibility 
 Feedback 

 Powered by Tyler Technologies 

 Feedback 

 × 

 How was your experience today? 

 Satisfied 

 Okay 

 Not Satisfied 

 Write your experience 

 Would you like to be contacted for further assistance? 

 Yes 

 No 

 How would you like to be contacted? 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Name 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Submit 

 Thank you! 

 × 

 Your feedback makes a difference. 
 We read all feedback and make continuous improvements based on what we learn. 

 Close