MINUTES | hi-honolulu | 2024-05-22 ZON - May 22, 2024 | 2024-05-22
SOURCE: https://honolulu.granicus.com/AgendaViewer.php?view_id=3&clip_id=2412
STATUS: html
------------------------------------------------------------

2024-05-22 ZON 

 HONOLULU CITY COUNCIL 
 KE KANIHELA O KE KALANA O HONOLULU 
 CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU 

 COMMITTEE ON ZONING 

 Voting Members: 

 Calvin K.Y. Say, Chair 
 Tyler Dos Santos-Tam, Vice Chair 
 Radiant Cordero 
 Esther Kia'āina 
 Matt Weyer 

 AGENDA 
 REGULAR MEETING 
 CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
 Wednesday, May 22, 2024 
 9:00
 AM 

 Remote and in-person oral testimony will be permitted on all items on the agenda when each agenda item is taken up. Each speaker may not have anyone else read their statement and is limited to a one-minute presentation. 

 Remote Testimony 
 1. For direct access to submit oral testimony call: +1-253-215-8782, enter ID 89704326807 and Passcode 371330. 
 2. To testify by videoconference visit: https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony . Videoconference access information will be provided upon registration. Testifiers are encouraged to register/submit testimony at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. 

 Although remote oral testimony is being permitted, this is a regular meeting and not a remote meeting by interactive conference technology under HRS Section 92-3.7. Therefore, the meeting will continue notwithstanding loss of audiovisual communication with remote testifiers or loss of the public broadcast of the meeting. 

 Persons wishing to testify in-person in the Council Chamber are requested to register by 9:00 a.m. by filling out the registration form in person ouside the Council Chamber. Persons who have not registered will be given an opportunity to speak following the oral testimonies of the registered speakers. 

 Oral testimony will be allowed when each agenda item is taken up, in the following order: 
 1. Remote testimony; 
 2. In-person testimony in the Council Chamber 

 Written testimony may be uploaded at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/testimony , or mailed to Office of the City Clerk, Attention: Information Section, 530 South King Street, Room 100, Honolulu, HI 96813. If submitted, written testimonies, including the testifier's address, e-mail address and phone number, will be available to the public at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov . 

 Should you have any questions please call (808) 768-3816 or send an email to kiana.pascual@honolulu.gov . 

 Meeting materials ("board packet" under HRS Section 92-7.5) are accessible at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/browse/agendas by clicking on the appropriate Committee meeting. 

 The meeting will be viewable: (1) by internet live streaming through https://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings ; (2) by televised live broadcast on 'Olelo TV Channel 54; and (3) on the monitor situated outside the Council Chamber. Viewers who experience a loss of viewing signal should try switching to another viewing option. 

 After the meeting, the meeting will be viewable on demand at http://www.honolulucitycouncil.org/meetings . Copies of older meeting videos may be requested by calling the City Clerk's Office at (808) 768-5822, charges may apply. 

 If you need an auxiliary aid/service or other accommodation due to a disability or an interpreter for a language other than English, please call the Office of the City Clerk Information Section at (808) 768-5822 between 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. or send an email to kiana.pascual@honolulu.gov as soon as possible or at least three (3) business days before the scheduled meeting. Requests made as early as possible have a greater likelihood of being fulfilled. 

 FOR ACTION 

 1.  RESOLUTION 24-124 – 2777 KALAKAUA AVENUE – WAIKIKI (2023/SMA-23 AND 2023/SV-1). Granting a Special Management Area (“SMA”) Major Permit and Shoreline Setback Variance (“SSV”) to the University of Hawai’i (“Applicant”) to allow the installation of two on-site injection wells and associated appurtenances, installing equipment for disposal of Waikiki Aquarium exhibit wastewater, constructing a filter housing building, and upgrading the existing piping, on approximately 2.35 acres of land zoned P-2 General Preservation District and Diamond Head Special District, Core Area, located at 2777 Kalakaua Avenue, and identified as Tax Map Key 3-1-031: 006. (Applicant: The University of Hawai’i) (Transmitted by Communication D-297[24]) (Current Deadline for Council action: 6/25/24) 

 AMENDED TO CD1

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE FOR CD1 

 PROPOSED CD1 TO RESOLUTION 24-124 (Submitted by Councilmember Say) - The Proposed CD1 (OCS2024-0508/5/15/2024 2:53 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 FOR ADOPTION 

 A. Amends the Resolution title to read as follows:

 "GRANTING A SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA MAJOR PERMIT AND SHORELINE SETBACK VARIANCE TO ALLOW FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO THE WAIKIKI AQUARIUM WASTEWATER SYSTEM AT 2777 KALAKAUA AVENUE, WAIKIKI, O’AHU." 

 B. Amends all references to "SMA Use Permit" to "SMA Major Permit," and "Report and Recommendation of approval" to "findings and recommendation of approval" throughout the resolution.

 C. Amends the first WHEREAS clause to clarify the description of the Project, including to specify that the Project’s shoreline zoning lot is 2.35 acres.

 D. Adds a new second WHEREAS clause to describe Project benefits.

 E. Amends the fourth WHEREAS clause by:

 1. Changing the reference from "60 days" to "45 days";

 2. Updating the ROH references to ROH §§ 25-3.1, 25-4.1, 26-1.8, and 26-1.9, and updating the HRS references to HRS §§ 205A-2, 205A-26, and 205A-46;

 3. Changing the phrase "Report and Recommendation of approval" to "findings and recommendation of approval."

 F. Amends the fifth WHEREAS clause by replacing April 24, 2024 with April 26, 2024 (the date on which the Council received the findings and recommendation of approval from the DPP).

 G. In the BE IT RESOLVED clause:

 1. In Condition A, clarifies that any change in the size or nature of the Project that may have a significant effect on coastal resources addressed in ROH 2 Chapters 25 and 26, HRS Chapter 205A, or both, and will require a new application for an SMA Major Use Permit and SSV.

 2. In Condition B, relating to archaeological, historic, and cultural resources that may be present on the Project site:

 a. Adds a new Condition B.1 to require the Applicant to submit to the DPP a copy of the written determination from SHPD regarding any required mitigative actions and protocols; renumbers subsequent subdivisions;

 b. In renumbered Condition B.2, requires that the archaeological monitoring plan ("AMP") meet the standards of Chapter 13-279, Hawaii Administrative Rules, requires the Applicant to implement the AMP during ground-disturbing activity and Project construction, and requires the onsite presence of a SHPD-approved archaeologist during excavation work;

 c. Adds a new Condition B.3 to require the Applicant to implement all mitigation protocols approved or otherwise required by SHPD, and to require that a coordination meeting be conducted among the Project’s archaeological consultants, the construction contractor, and applicable subcontractors to ensure that all parties are informed of the mitigation protocols required by SHPD; renumbers the subsequent subdivision; and

 d. Requires that all requirements in Condition B and all mitigation protocols approved or otherwise required by SHPD be clearly stated under "Environmental Notes" on all Project construction permit plans and building permit plans.

 3. Moves former Condition C.3 to a new Condition C, which provides for conditions relating to the importation of fill material as follows:

 a. In Condition C.1, specifies that the Applicant proposes to excavate a total of approximately 730 cubic yards ("CYs") of soil material, and use approximately 66 CYs of excavated soil material as fill for grading, restoration, and landscaping;

 b. In Condition C.2, reformats the requirement that if the importation of soil material is necessary, the Applicant is required to submit to DOFAW a materials analysis; and

 c. In Condition C.3, provides that if soil material is imported, approximately one year after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Project, the Applicant is required to submit to 3 DOFAW a post-construction survey to analyze whether the Project site contains any invasive species that have spread from the fill material, and requires the Applicant to implement the recommendations of the post-construction survey; and

 d. Requires that all requirements in Condition C be clearly stated under "Environmental Notes" on all Project construction permit plans and building permit plans.

 Realphabetizes subsequent conditions. 

 4. Amends realphabetized Condition D, relating to minimizing impacts to coastal ecosystems to:

 a. Require the Applicant to consult the Plant Pono website (or any successor website or other website recommended by DOFAW) to determine the potential invasiveness of plants proposed for use within the Project site, and to only plant low-risk plants;

 b. Prohibit the Applicant from planting any high-risk invasive species identified on the Oahu Invasive Species Committee website (or any successor website or other website recommended by DOFAW);

 c. Require the Applicant to minimize movement of plant or soil material on the Project site, and clean Project construction equipment, materials, and personnel of excess soil and debris prior to entering and leaving a Project worksite; and

 d. Require that all requirements in Condition C be clearly stated under "Environmental Notes" on all Project construction permit plans and building permit plans.

 5. Conforms realphabetized Condition E, relating to impacts to threatened, endangered, or protected avian, marine, and terrestrial fauna that may frequent the Project site, to the standard language generally used for SMA Major Permit resolutions.

 6. Moves former Condition F to a new Condition F, which provides for landowner acknowledgements relating to coastal hazards as follows:

 1. "The landowner hereby acknowledges that Tax Map Key 3-1-031:006 is susceptible to coastal hazards, which may result in harm to or loss of life and property;" and

 2. "The landowner hereby acknowledges that a majority of Tax Map Key 3-1-031:006 is projected to be impacted by 3.2 feet of sea level rise by the year 2100, and that a majority of the proposed development is located within the 3.2-foot sea level rise exposure area ("SLR-XA"). The landowner agrees to assume all risk and liability for any harm to or loss of life and property due to development within the SLR-XA. The landowner further agrees to accept all responsibility for the cost and physical removal of materials and structures lost or damaged as a result of coastal hazards, including the cleanup and restoration of the Project site."

 Requires that the statements in Condition F be clearly stated under "Landowner Acknowledgements" on all Project building permit plans. 

 7. Conforms realphabetized Condition G, relating to other governmental approvals and requirements, to the standard language generally used for SMA Major Permit resolutions.

 H. Makes miscellaneous technical and nonsubstantive amendments.

 VOTE 

 2.  RESOLUTION 24-141 – LAND USE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT. Proposing an amendment to Chapter 21, Revised Ordinances of Honolulu 2021 (The Land Use Ordinance), relating to administrative enforcement. 

 FOR ADOPTION

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE 

 3.  BILL 6 (2024) – RELATING TO PERMITS. Improving public notification regarding the authorization, or lack thereof, for work performed on a property in the City and County of Honolulu and to amend provisions related to the administration and enforcement of certain codes in the Revised Ordinances of Honolulu 2021. (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 5/15/24) 

 AMENDED TO CD1

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE FOR CD1 

 PROPOSED CD1 TO BILL 6 (2024) (Submitted by Council Chair Waters) - The Proposed CD1 (OCS2024-0527/5/15/2024 3:16 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 FURTHER AMENDED AND REPORTED OUT FOR 3RD READING 

 A. Adds a new SECTION 2 of the bill, to amend ROH § 16-10.1, relating to general violation and penalty provisions, by adding a new subsection (d) to provide for the methods by which the building official may serve an enforcement notice. Specifically, the building official may serve enforcement notices by:

 1. Registered or certified mail;

 2. Personal service;

 3. Leaving a copy of the enforcement notice at the violator’s residence, place of employment, or usual place of business;

 4. Physically posting a copy of the enforcement notice in a prominent location on the property that is the subject of the enforcement notice; or

 5. If the building official is not able to serve the enforcement notice by any of the methods described above, by publishing a copy of the notice of order once each week for two consecutive weeks in a daily or weekly publication that is in general circulation within the City.

 B. Adds a new SECTION 3 of the bill, to amend ROH § 16-10.2, relating to notices of violation, by:

 1. Amending subsection (a) to reference the service of enforcement notice provisions in ROH § 16-10.1(d); and

 2. Amending subsection (b) to be consistent with the contents of a notice of violation required in ROH § 21-2.150-2(d).

 C. Adds a new SECTION 4 of the bill, to amend ROH § 16-10.4, relating to administrative enforcement, by:

 1. Amending the lead-in provision to reference the service of enforcement notice provisions in ROH § 16-10.1(d);

 2. Adding a new subsection (a)(1) to provide that in addition to any other information or requirements deemed appropriate by the building official, the notice of order must include a copy of the applicable notice of violation issued by the building official for the violation; and renumbering subsequent subdivisions;

 3. Amending renumbered subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii) to clarify that the penalty is $2,000 per day for each day in which the violation persists beyond the date specified in subparagraph (i);

 4. Amending renumbered subsection (a)(3) to clarify that the notice of order will become final 30 calendar days after the date the notice of order was served on the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 16-10.1(d);

 5. Deleting subsection (b), relating to service of notices of order, and realphabetizing subsequent subsections;

 6. Amending realphabetized subsection (b) to clarify that the notice of order will become final 30 calendar days after the date the notice of order was served on the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 16-10.1(d);

 7. Amending realphabetized subsection (c) to clarify that the building official may institute a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the enforcement of any notice of order served to the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 16-10.1(d); and

 8. Adding a new subsection (e) to provide that nothing in the section precludes the building official from seeking any other remedy available by law.

 9.Re numbers subsequent SECTIONS of the bill.

 D. In renumbered SECTION 6 of the bill, amends ROH § 18-5.1(d), relating to the posting of building permits, to provide that:

 1. If a building permit is suspended pursuant to ROH § 18-5.4(d), within three calendar days after the date the notice of suspension is served to the permittee pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), the permittee is required to physically post the notice of suspension directly adjacent to any building permit that has been posted pursuant to the subsection; if the notice of suspension is not posted within the specified time period, the building official will post the notice of suspension; and

 2. If a building permit is revoked pursuant to ROH § 18-5.4(d), within three calendar days after the date the notice of revocation is served to the permittee pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), the permittee is required to remove the building permit that has been posted pursuant to the subsection; if the building permit is not removed within the specified time period, the building official will remove the building permit.

 E. In renumbered SECTION 7 of the bill, amends ROH § 18-5.4, relating to the suspension or revocation of building permits, by:

 1. Amending subsection (d) to clarify that the building official may issue a notice to revoke a permit if the building or work authorized by the permit is not commenced within 180 days after the date the permit was issued, or if the building or work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of at least 120 consecutive days after the work has commenced;

 2. Amending subsection (e)(1) to provide that the building official is required to serve to the permittee, pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), a written notice of suspension or revocation of a permit;

 3. Deleting subsections (e)(2) and (3), relating to service of the notice of suspension or revocation of the building permit; and renumbering subsequent subdivisions;

 4. Adding a new subsection (e)(3) to provide that if a notice of suspension is served to the permittee pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), the permittee is required to comply with the physical posting requirements of ROH § 18-5.1(d)(1), and if a notice of revocation is served to the permittee pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), the permittee is required to remove the building permit in compliance with ROH § 18-5.1(d)(2).

 F. Adds a new SECTION 8 of the bill to amend ROH § 18-7.1, relating to general violation and penalty provisions, by adding a new subsection (c) to provide for the methods by which the building official may serve an enforcement notice. Specifically, the building official may serve enforcement notices by:

 1. Registered or certified mail;

 2. Personal service;

 3. Leaving a copy of the enforcement notice at the violator’s residence, place of employment, or usual place of business;

 4. Physically posting a copy of the enforcement notice in a prominent location on the property that is the subject of the enforcement notice; or

 5. If the building official is not able to serve the enforcement notice by any of the methods described above, by publishing a copy of the notice of order once each week for two consecutive weeks in a daily or weekly publication that is in general circulation within the City.

 G. Adds a new SECTION 9 of the bill to amend ROH § 18-7.2, relating to notices of violation, by:

 1. Amending subsection (a) to reference the service of enforcement notice provisions in ROH § 18-7.1(c); and

 2. Amending subsection (b) to be consistent with the contents of a notice of violation required in ROH § 21-2.150-2(d).

 H. Adds a new SECTION 10 of the bill to amend ROH § 18-7.4, relating to administrative enforcement, by:

 1. Amending the lead-in provision to reference the service of enforcement notice provisions in ROH § 18-7.1(c);

 2. Adding a new subsection (a)(1) to provide that in addition to any other information or requirements deemed appropriate by the building official, the notice of order must include a copy of the applicable notice of violation issued by the building official for the violation; and renumbering subsequent subdivisions;

 3. Amending renumbered subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii) to clarify that the penalty is $2,000 per day for each day in which the violation persists beyond the date specified in subparagraph (i);

 4. Amending renumbered subsection (a)(3) to clarify that the notice of order will become final 30 calendar days after the date the notice of order was served on the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c);

 5. Deleting subsection (b), relating to service of notices of order, and realphabetizing subsequent subsections;

 6. Amending realphabetized subsection (b) to clarify that the notice of order will become final 30 calendar days after the date the notice of order was served on the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c);

 7. Amending realphabetized subsection (c) to clarify that the building official may institute a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the enforcement of any notice of order served to the persons responsible for the violation pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c);

 8. Amending realphabetized subsection (d)(2) to clarify that the civil fine for any subsequent violation by the person within three years after the date of the third order became final will be $10,000; and

 9. Adding a new subsection (e) to provide that nothing in the section precludes the building official from seeking any other remedy available by law.

 Renumbers subsequent SECTIONS of the bill. 

 I. In renumbered SECTION 11 of the bill, amends ROH § 18-7.5, relating to stop work orders, by:

 1. Amending subsection (a) to provide that if the building official determines that work on a project must stop, the building official is required to serve, pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), a stop work order to the owner of the property that is the subject of the stop work order; and

 2. Amending subsection (c) to provide that if a stop work order is served, pursuant to ROH § 18-7.1(c), to the owner of the property that is the subject of the stop work order, within three calendar days after the date the stop work order was served to the owner, the owner is required to physically post the stop work order directly adjacent to any building permit that has been posted pursuant to ROH § 18-5.1(d); if the stop work order is not posted within the specified time period, the building official will post the stop work order.

 J. Makes miscellaneous technical and nonsubstantive amendments.

 VOTE 

 4.  BILL 52 (2023), CD1 – RELATING TO LARGE DWELLINGS. Providing a more effective deterrent and hefty penalty to developers that violate the monster homes ordinance by supplying incorrect information on plans or convert rooms for multi-family uses during or post construction. (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 5/15/24) (Current deadline for Council Action: 9/24/24) 

 REPORTED OUT FOR 3RD READING

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE 

 5.  BILL 53 (2023), CD1 – RELATING TO REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BED AND BREAKFAST HOMES AND TRANSIENT VACATION UNITS. Addressing standards and requirements for operating bed and breakfast homes and transient vacation units. (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 5/15/24) (Current deadline for Council Action: 9/24/24) 

 AMENDED TO CD2

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE FOR CD2 

 PROPOSED CD2 TO BILL 53 (2023), CD1 (Submitted by Councilmember Say) - The Proposed CD2 (OCS2024-0536/5/16/2024 1:39 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 REPORTED OUT FOR 3RD READING 

 A. In SECTION 2 of the bill:

 1. Specifies in ROH § 21-5.730(b)(1)(F) (relating to initial registration requirements) that the letter from the applicable homeowners association or apartment owners association must be dated no more than one year (as opposed to six months) prior to the date of the registration application, confirming that the bed and breakfast home or transient vacation unit is permitted; and

 2. Specifies in ROH § 21-5.730(b)(2)(F) (relating to renewal registration requirements) that the letter from the applicable homeowners association or apartment owners association must be dated no more than one year prior (as opposed to six months) to the date of the registration renewal application confirming that the bed and breakfast home or transient vacation unit is permitted.

 B. Makes miscellaneous technical and nonsubstantive amendments.

 VOTE 

 6.  BILL 10 (2024) – RELATING TO BUILDING PERMITS. Removing the affidavit requirement of stating no outstanding fines or liens for building permit applications, and require an additional plan review fee when resubmitting applications that fail to include necessary information required for review and approval not previously provided as part of a complete application submission. (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 5/15/24) 

 DEFERRED TO DATE AND TIME DETERMINED BY COMMITTEE CHAIR

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE 

 PROPOSED CD1 TO BILL 10 (2024) (Submitted by Councilmember Tupola) - The Proposed CD1 (OCS2024-0213/3/6/2024 2:12 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 A. Amends SECTION 1 of the bill (the purpose clause) to remove references to provisions that are being removed from the substantive sections of the Bill (see B. below).

 B. Amends SECTION 3 of the bill, which amends ROH Section 18-6.1 ("Plan review fees") to delete proposed new subsection (c), which would have authorized DPP to impose an additional fee when DPP requires building permit applicants to file supplemental information or make corrections or clarifications to their applications, and redesignates the following subsection (d) as subsection (c) accordingly.

 C. Makes miscellaneous technical and non-substantive amendments.

 PROPOSED CD1 TO BILL 10 (2024) (Submitted by Councilmember Say) - The Proposed CD1 (OCS2024-0521/5/15/2024 2:09 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 A. In SECTION 2 of the bill, designates the lead-in provision in ROH § 18-4.1 as subsection (a), and adds a provision from subsection (b)(12) to provide that except to correct a violation on a zoning lot, no permit application will be accepted or processed if the owner of the property that is the subject of an application has any outstanding fines payable to or liens in favor of the City.

 B. In SECTION 2 of the bill, reinstates ROH § 18-4.1(b)(9), relating to an affidavit requirement to demonstrate that a majority of property owners concur with a building’s demolition, because the deletion of this subdivision does not fall within the bill’s purpose clause. Reformats the subdivision and edits the language to be consistent with the lead-in language.

 C. In SECTION 2 of the bill, reinstates ROH § 18-4.1(b)(10), relating to an affidavit requirement to affirm compliance with certain restrictive covenants and the Land Use Ordinance, because the deletion of this subdivision does not fall within the bill’s purpose clause. Edits the language to be consistent with the lead-in language.

 D. In SECTION 3 of the bill:

 1. Updates the amendatory language to reflect that ROH § 18-6.1 was amended by Ordinance 24-3 and updates the language set forth in ROH § 18-6.1(a) to reflect the amendments made by Ordinance 24-3; and

 2. Amends proposed new ROH § 18-6.1(c), relating to an additional plan review fee upon an applicant’s resubmittal of a building permit application that initially failed to include information necessary to constitute a complete application submission, to reformat the subsection and provide an exception if the applicant is an owner-builder authorized by HRS § 444- 2.5.

 E. Makes miscellaneous technical and nonsubstantive amendments.

 7.  BILL 3 (2024), CD1 – RELATING TO INCENTIVES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING. Addressing affordable rental housing in the City and County of Honolulu. (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 5/15/24) 

 DEFERRED TO DATE AND TIME DETERMINED BY COMMITTEE CHAIR

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE 

 Related communication: 

 MM-87 [24] Testimony on Bill 3 (2024) submitted by the Office of Housing.

 8.  BILL 31 (2024) – RELATING TO PRE-CONSTRUCTION FINANCING FOR AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING. Addressing affordable rental housing in the City and County of Honolulu. (Bill passed First Reading on 5/15/24) 

 DEFERRED TO DATE AND TIME DETERMINED BY COMMITTEE CHAIR

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE 

 PROPOSED CD1 TO BILL 31 (2024) (Submitted by Councilmember Kia’aina) - The Proposed CD1 (OCS2024-0526/5/16/2024 1:13 PM) makes the following amendments: 

 A. Amends proposed ROH § 32-5.2(b), relating to the source of funds of the pre-construction financing, in SECTION 2 of the bill by:

 1. Removing the provision that payments will be disbursed from the affordable housing fund;

 2. Providing that the aggregate of pre-construction financing payments under proposed ROH § 32-5.2 and the post-construction grant payments made under ROH § 32-4.2 may not exceed $10,000,000 in general funds (provided that there is no limit on pre-construction payments that may be made from funds outside of the general fund);

 3. Providing that the maximum amount of funds available per fiscal year is limited to the amount appropriated for pre-construction financing in each fiscal year’s executive operating budget and program (rather than the executive capital budget and program); and

 4. Removing the limitation that pre-construction financing moneys may only be used in accordance with Charter § 9-204.3 (which relates to the affordable housing fund).

 B. Makes miscellaneous technical and nonsubstantive amendments, including amendments for purposes of clarification.

 9.  BILL 65 (2023), CD1 – RELATING TO THE ADOPTION OF THE STATE BUILDING CODE. Adopting the Hawaii State Building Code, including Appendices U, W, and X; the State Residential Code; the State Existing Building Code, subject to local amendments herein, and updating Article 13 (“Hawaii Residential Safe Room”) and Article 14 (“State- and City-Owned High Occupancy Buildings – Design Criteria for Enhanced Hurricane Protection Areas”). (Bill passed Second Reading and Public Hearing held on 2/28/24) 

 AMENDED TO CD2

 REMOTE AND IN-PERSON TESTIFIERS 

 VOTE FOR CD2 

 BILL 65 (2023), CD2 

 REPORTED OUT FOR 3RD READING 

 VOTE 

 Related communications: 

 CC-83 [24] Proposed amendments to Bill 65 (2023), submitted by Councilmember Dos Santos-Tam.

 CC-155 [24] Proposed amendments to Bill 65 (2023), submitted by Councilmember Say.

 EXECUTIVE SESSION 

If the need arises with respect to any item on this agenda, then pursuant to Hawai’i Revised Statutes Sections 92-4 and 92-5(a)(4), the Committee may consult in a closed meeting with its attorneys in executive session on questions and issues pertaining to the Council’s powers, duties, privileges, immunities and/or liabilities relating to that item.