MINUTES | hi-honolulu | clip 1767 | nodate
SOURCE: https://honolulu.granicus.com/MinutesViewer.php?view_id=3&clip_id=1767
STATUS: minutes-html
------------------------------------------------------------

Skip to main content 

 Honolulu City Council 
 Honolulu Records Collection 

 PDF Version 

 Home 
 Agendas 

 Agenda 

 Page numbers may not match those on the PDF version of the Agenda.

 Page 1 

 CITY COUNCIL CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813-3077   

   PERMITTED INTERACTION GROUP 

 Carol Fukunaga Heidi Tsuneyoshi 

 AGENDA ADDENDUM 

 PERMITTED INTERACTION GROUP MEETING 

 CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 

 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2022 

 2:00 P.M. 

 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION 

 Pursuant to Hawaii Revised Statutes ("HRS") Section 92-2.5(b), the meeting of the Permitted Action Group is not required to comply with the requirements of HRS Chapter 92, Part I, the "Sunshine Law." However, in order to allow public participation in a manner consistent with the spirit of the Sunshine Law and safe practices, this meeting will be conducted as a remote meeting by interactive conference technology, with the following procedures in effect for the meeting: 

 VIEWING THE MEETING AND RESTRICTIONS ON ENTRY 

 Members of the public will not be allowed into the meeting room, but may view the meeting on a live broadcast. The meeting will be viewable: (1) by internet live streaming through www.honolulucitycouncil.com or olelo.org and (2) by televised live broadcast on Olelo TV Channel 54. 

 After the meeting, the meeting will be viewable on demand at www.honolulucitycouncil.com . Copies of older meeting videos may be requested by calling the City Clerk’s Office at (808) 768-5822; charges may apply. 

 Some Councilmembers and presenters may be participating in the meeting by interactive conference technology from remote locations. 

 PARTICIPATION 

 Members of the public may participate by asking questions and/or providing comment during announced times when called upon subject to the call of the Chair, through the Zoom chat function, and for participants calling in by phone, by indicating the desire to do so to Legislative staff, with the following restrictions: 

 1. Persons may participate remotely through the Zoom video conferencing platform. To participate, persons should visit www.zoom.us , click “Join,” enter meeting ID  92981972741 , and complete the registration process. Registrants will receive an email that contains links and instructions on joining the meeting by 

 Page 2 

 either phone or video conference. Zoom participants are strongly encouraged to register at least 24 hours before the start of the meeting. 

 2. To audio conference on the day of the meeting call +1-253-215-8782 , enter ID:  92981972741 , and Passcode: 170359 . 

 Persons who have registered to participate remotely by video conference or phone will be informed to participate at the appropriate time. 

 INSTRUCTIONS ON REMOTE PARTICIPATION 

 After You Submit Your Request to Participate Remotely 

 A few minutes after registering to participate remotely, you will receive a confirmation email that details your submission, including information confirming your request to participate remotely (if applicable). 

 Before the Meeting 

 The Zoom link will be activated 20-30 minutes prior to the scheduled start time for the meeting. Please join the meeting early so we can clearly identify participants before the meeting begins. 

 •  Please join the Zoom meeting using the first and last name you provided when submitting your registration. This is how we will identify you. 

 During the Meeting 

 All participants must utilize their computer audio to participate and you are strongly encouraged to share your video when participating. 

 •  This link explains how to test your computer speaker and microphone. 

 •  During the meeting your microphone should be muted and video camera turned off until it is your turn to participate. Legislative staff may mute participants or turn off your video as necessary. 

 •  Upon signing in, you are initially identified as an Attendee of the video conference. 

 •  Throughout the meeting: 

 Page 3 

 o  Please state your questions and/or comments using the Chat function. 

 •  During the announced times for participation: 

 o  Please utilize the Raise Hand button to indicate your desire to speak. 

 o  When your name is called, Legislative staff will remotely designate you as a participant. There may be a slight delay, so please monitor your screen, you will receive a request to join as a participant, please accept the request and unmute your audio when prompted. 

 o  Before participating, please state your full name. 

 •  If you do not respond, or encounter technical problems when the Chair calls on you, you may not be able to participate. 

 •  For those who may be joining by telephone only, you will be identified by the last three digits of your phone number. When your phone number is called, there may be a slight delay. Please press *6 to unmute yourself when prompted. Before participating, please state your full name. 

 •  Participants are discouraged from participating while driving. 

 Additional Tips and Reminders 

 •  To help ensure successful participation in the meeting, please test your audio and video before joining the meeting and check the chat panel frequently until it is your turn to participate. 

 •  Your internet speed will affect the quality of your audio and video in the meeting. The City Council and City Clerk will not be responsible for users’ connection issues and technical problems. We recommend joining the meeting from a hard-wired broadband internet connection whenever possible. 

 •  To prevent audio feedback, the sound for any livestream or cable broadcasts of the meeting you have running in the background must be turned off or muted when it is your turn to participate. (There will be a 20 to 30 second delay from the Zoom meeting to the livestream.) 

 •  You are participating in a public event that is being broadcast live. The Zoom audio/video of the meeting will be part of the public cable broadcast and/or livestream via the internet. Please minimize background noise and consider what is visible in the background of your webcam. 

 Page 4 

 * * * * * * 

 MATERIALS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION 

 Meeting materials (“ board packet ” under HRS Section 92-7.5) are accessible at https://hnldoc.ehawaii.gov/hnldoc/browse/agendas by clicking on the appropriate Committee meeting. 

 Should you have any questions, please call (808) 768-3816 or send an email to kiana.pascual@honolulu.gov . 

 Page 5 

 This agenda addendum adds new related communications to Agenda Item No. 1. 

 Councilmembers Fukunaga and Tsuneyoshi, pursuant to Resolution of the Committee on Public Infrastructure and Technology, Council Communication 402 (2021), which established a subcommittee of the Committee on Public Infrastructure and Technology as a Permitted Interaction Group to investigate matters relating to compliance with fire safety ordinances in residential high-rise buildings. 

 1.  PANEL DISCUSSION ON LIFE SAFETY EVALUATION PROCESS 

 Panelists include: 

 •  Pauli Wong – Associa Hawaii 

 •  Karen Fleming – Hawaiiana Management Company, Ltd. 

 •  Jonathan Billings – Touchstone Properties, Ltd. 

 •  Douglas Buhr – Douglas Engineering Pacific, Inc. 

 •  Jane Sugimura – Hawaii Council of Community Associations 

 Members of the public will be given the opportunity to ask questions of the panelists following their remarks. 

 Related Communications : 

 CC-043(22) 

 FUKUNAGA, TSUNEYOSHI - Draft Report of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Public Infrastructure and Technology as a Permitted Interaction Group (Council Communication 402).

 CC-46 Clarification of HFD’s Three-Month Fire Safety Report (D‑0746) and Current Status of Life Safety Evaluations filed with HFD (Jan. 31, 2022). 

 CC-046(22) 

 FUKUNAGA - Clarification of HFD's 3-Month Fire Safety Report (D-0746) and Current Status of Life Safety Evaluations filed with HFD (Jan. 31, 2022)

 D-112 Clarification of HFD’s Three-Month Fire Safety Report (D‑0746) and Current Status of Life Safety Evaluations (LSE) filed with HFD (Jan. 31, 2022). 

 D-0112(22) 

 FIRE - Clarification of HFD's Three-Month Fire Safety Report (D-0746) and Current Status of Life Safety Evaluations (LSE) filed with HFD (Jan.31.2022).

 CAROL FUKUNAGA 

 Permitted Interaction Group 

 Page 

 Office of City Clerk 
 City and County of Honolulu 
 530 South King Street, Suite # 100 
 Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96813 
 (808) 768-5822

 Copyright © 2019 . All rights reserved.

 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Accessibility 
 Feedback 

 Powered by Tyler Technologies 

 Feedback 

 × 

 How was your experience today? 

 Satisfied 

 Okay 

 Not Satisfied 

 Write your experience 

 Would you like to be contacted for further assistance? 

 Yes 

 No 

 How would you like to be contacted? 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Name 

 Email 

 Phone 

 Submit 

 Thank you! 

 × 

 Your feedback makes a difference. 
 We read all feedback and make continuous improvements based on what we learn. 

 Close